It's not really a review but my attempt to explain how I interpreted the movie to those who complain that the film is overrated, especially if the reason is that they didn't like the second half of it.It's much easier to understand the message of a movie when the 'good guys' win or the 'bad guys' get punished in the end. I'm not saying that all Hollywood films are so naive in their portrayal of moral values. But still, I believe that Parasite is much more subtle than most other movies that people are accustomed to watching in which there's a character with a clearer 'moral center' whom audiences can easily relate to. So, I think it's no surprise if the message of this film had failed to register for some of the audiences.Some complained that they don't understand Ki-Taek's motive for killing Mr. Park. But to fully appreciate this, you need to understand the meaning of a recurring expression in the dialogue which is, "crossing the line".It's a deliberately ambiguous phrase that can either read as one should respect other people's privacy or as one should mind one's own (social) position instead of meddling with the affairs of those in a different position. If interpreted as the latter meaning, it can serve as another image that emphasizes the subject matter of the narrative, along with more easy to notice the metaphor of the two families' respective dwellings.It would probably have satisfied such audiences who expected more lighthearted drama if the movie focused on an underprivileged, but more likable family exploiting a cold hearted snobbish family in a comical manner. But the movie would have lost all its genuine charms if Bong Joon-Ho chose such a path, and he is too good a director not to see such a danger.Instead, he chose to make Mr. Park a reasonable enough character, despite his occasional hints that reveal his true nature. He seems to treat Ki-Taek fairly enough at first, but he also warns the latter not to 'cross the line' if Ki-Taek attempts to pry into his private life.At first, it seems that it's quite easy for Ki-Taek and other members of his family to sneak into Mr. Park's house in various roles and mingle with them. Ki-Taek even compliments how nice Mr. Park's family is, but his premature admiration soon gets challenged when he overheard, when he was hiding under the table, what Mr. Park really thinks of him - almost a different species of the human being who doesn't even smell like him.Ki-Taek's final disillusionment came when Mr. Park cringes from the smell of the dead basement dweller and shows much more concern for his son's shock while virtually ignoring Ki-Taek's daughter's status who's dying on the ground, spurting blood from the stab wound.That moment, Ki-Taek realizes how Mr. Park sees him and his whole family as not an equal human being, but something much more insignificant.And he also realizes the 'line' that separates the two families is not just that of courtesy or proper social behaviour. Instead, it is a line that can even determine the life of those 'lesser' human beings to be less important than the passing unpleasant feelings or mental shock of those 'proper' human beings.However easy it was for Ki-Taek's family to sneak into Mr. Park's house, or however they try to socialize and mingle with Mr. Park's family, their existence is no better than that of a 'parasite', which is also visualized so effectively by the presence of the hidden basement room inside the house.With such disillusionment and anger, Ki-Taek chose to kill Mr. Park, as a parasite could to its host, and like a parasite, he keeps hiding deep inside the dead host's body until he could claim the whole of the carcass and use it as nourishment for his offsprings.The tragedy was not something caused by any exceptional defect or vice of either Mr. Park's or Ki-Taek's personalities. Instead, it's a 'line' drawn by an invisible hand, separating those classes according to their respective social conditions, which can be so brutal as to be able to deprive the two families of their humanity in contrasting manners. And that is what I believe to be the message this film is trying to convey.Of course, not every movie must make a commentary on society rather than providing a care-free pastime that everyone can understand.But without if the movie didn't change its gear in the second half to shed light on a serious inherent problem of our society, it would be just another heist gone wrong type comedy, instead of a deserving candidate to be called the best film of the year.
I am remarkably stingy with my 10/10 ratings. I'll be the first person to acknowledge this. Of the roughly 2600 titles I've rated on here, only 34 have a 10.
Parasite is one of them. If this isn't a masterpiece, then I don't know what is.I'm going to keep it vague on the plot-front, because I didn't know anything about it going in, and was really excited to see it progress and unfold in satisfying, unexpected ways.What I will say is that this film, more than just about any other I've seen, put me through so many different emotional states during its 132-minute runtime, and did so without ever feeling muddled or tonally inconsistent. Parts of this movie were hilarious. Parts were heartbreaking. Other parts were insanely suspenseful (I'm honestly not sure if I've felt this close to the edge of my seat since the final season of Breaking Bad, way back in 2013).And it does all this while being perfectly paced, beautifully directed, and amazingly acted from every single member of its cast. All the characters are understandable and sympathetic to some degree; the amount of conflict, drama and tension derived from a narrative with no clear heroes and villains is staggering. You come to care for just about all of them.I'm stumped to come up with any flaws for this movie. And sure, I've seen many movies that are hard to fault, but it's rare that a movie appeals to me on a gut level and excites me to this degree while also being so close to technically perfect. It's extremely entertaining, thoroughly moving in so many different ways, and as icing on the cake there's a ton of social commentary and some heavy themes to chew on once the movie's over (and this one's not going to leave my head for a while, I can tell).Catch this one when you can and believe the hype. Joon-Ho Bong has made many great films (and so far no bad one's), but this even manages to stand head and shoulders above all the others.When it comes time to consider what the best film of the 2010s was, this one will surely be up there.
I can't remember the last time I saw a movie that contained as many genres as 'Parasite'. The movie starts out almost like an 'Ocean's Eleven' heist film and then expands into a comedy, mystery, thriller, drama, romance, crime and even horror film. It really did have everything and it was strikingly good at all of them too.I love a film that respects its audience. There are so many details in this movie that are crucially important and yet the film trusts its audience to notice them and acknowledge them without ramming them down our throats. There are a lot of layers to this film and I suspect for this reason its rewatch-ability factor will be very high.The film was incredibly entertaining too. I can't think of a boring scene in this movie and yet on the surface for large parts of the film you would say not a lot is happening, at least in terms of action. Fascinating characters and brilliant dialogue are what create this. I had a great time with 'Parasite' and I think most that give it a chance will too.
This movie is a gosh darn masterpiece. It will make you belly laugh, it will chill you to the bone, and it will make you shed a tear. This movie will stay with you long after the credits are over.If you plan on watching this movie, AVOID SPOILERS AT ALL COSTS.
Parasite was directed and written by Bong Joon Ho and tells the story of the Kim family and their life-changing involvement with the Park family.Parasite can best be described as astonishing, astounding, stunning or any other synonym of amazing. It is so far my favourite film of the year and one of my favourite films of the decade. The very idea of the plot is simple but incredibly hard to execute and that's, why it's editing, is pitch-perfect and leads to an unexpectedly shocking and brutal ending.The biggest forte of Parasite is the screenplay as it impeccably mixes comedy, drama and horror featuring flawless pacing, breath-taking cinematography, a beautiful score and a brilliant cast making it a masterpiece. Parasite also perfectly presents the subject of classism, showing us how both the working class and the upper class view each other and the people around them. Themes of capitalism can also be felt throughout the film, but Parasite shouldn't be mistaken as a pro-capitalism film as it doesn't support or hate anyone or any side; it's ambiguity also contributes to this factor.Taking everything into account, Parasite is a true work of art and a rare and extraordinary masterpiece that should be viewed by everyone at some point in their lives, especially film lovers.Final Rating - 10/10
This film - Parasite - is so good that I set up an IMDB account to write about it. The film is a reflection upon poverty and wealth, an issue that is visible and salient in South Korea where the film is set. It uses humour, likeable characters, and a mischievous pace to draw in the viewer. Like a frog in the proverbial slowly-heating pot, we unwittingly come to consider what it means to be poor, what it means to be rich, and the volatile interface between the two.I began watching the film barracking for the various characters of the poverty-stricken Kim family as they weave themselves into the life of the wealthy Park family. The Kim family son, Ki-woo, pretends to be an English tutor to the Park family's daughter. In turn, Ki-woo draws in his sister, Ki-jung, who pretends to be an art therapist, to work with the traumatised Park family son. The mischief expands like a spider web, as the Kim family father, Ki-taek, and mother, Chung-sook, take further positions within the Park family as their driver and housekeeper. It's a simple premise taken to a ludicrous extreme, making the film both real and not-real.Beneath the light-hearted tone in which the 'parasitic' enmeshment is established, a dark underbelly of resentment reveals itself as the poorer Kim family inhabits the life of the wealthy Park family. As their unlikely success grows, the Kim family shift from a mindset of sporadic life resignations towards the dangerous realm of possibility. The Kim family may actually find a way out of poverty by inhabiting of the Park family house. The second half of the film shifts gear to explore the violence and ruthless deception that is spawned within this up-close-and-personal straddling of absurd extremes of inequality.Parasite calls on its viewers to understand the dynamics of inequality through this fable-istic account of two families, both having their own type of parasitic relation to each other. The Kim family is parasitic on the money of the Park family; the Park family, in turn, is parasitic on the Kim family to do life's chores. With great agility, the film sidesteps the temptation to valorise the poor or demonise the rich. We like all the characters, but there are no heroes. Instead, Parasite invites us to reflect upon inequality in its inglorious everyday forms. The Park family father doesn't like the smell of the Kim family father, while the Park family son inadvertently almost reveals the Kim family ruse by innocently noting that 'they all smell the same.' Poverty and wealth are not abstract categories; they are smells, experienced differently by rich and poor.In this down-to-earth-ness, the filmmaker, Bong Joon-ho, explicitly calls on viewers to interpret the movie on different levels. From the opening scenes, the Kim family son, Ki-woon, repeats the word 'metaphorical.' He is ostensibly talking about a rock that is supposed to bring wealth, but we viewers are left to open up wider horizons of meanings, such as: societies of great inequality must inevitably devolve into transactional-parasitic relations; wealthy families in the midst of poverty must inevitably defend against the social incursions of poorer people doing what they can to survive, as well as defending against the psychological incursions of bad conscience. In every rich household there is something hidden in the basement, as least psychologically.This film holds its line against the temptation to explicitly condemn the evils of inequality. Instead it relentlessly represents the dynamics of inequality, drawing away from the judgement of individual characters, leaving it to viewers to make sense of it. Being vague enough to not spoil the ending, the film's climax portrays violence bubbling up as an expression of long-suppressed resentment. It does so in light of a jarring juxtaposition between the despairing circumstances of the poorer family hitting rock bottom, and the oblivious self-centredness of the rich family who are circumstantially geared by the everyday realities of inequality to not want to know about anything outside their bubble.If the film has a political point, it shifts the debate about inequality. Instead of talking about the 'deserving poor' or the 'greedy rich', the film describes the impoverished social ecosystem of unequal societies, and the social roles and habits these societies require of their people. Violence in the face of absurd levels of inequality does not come from character flaws. But, rather, it emerges as the breaking point of the logics and habits of inequality taken to their logical extreme.An untended pot of boiling water creates scalding steam, and eventually bubbles over.
In a meritocracy, success and fortune are reserved for those who deserve it--those who develop solid plans according to their talents and abilities and who execute those plans through hard work and determination. Anyone can rise to the top, and for some lucky Cinderella, plucked from the cinders and gussied up in gowns, the meritocracy represents the heights of perfect egalitarian society: "I started with nothing and ended up with everything I ever desired; you, too, can achieve you dreams, if only you try."The promise of unobstructed sunshine at the top of the mountain becomes justification for bitter competition, backstabbing, deceit, and callousness. You climb the crooked ladder until you make it to the straight one, and then, perhaps, when you at last feel secure, you can afford to be kind and confident and generous. "It's easy to be nice when you're rich," the mother in this film (Jang Hye-jin) at one point observes.But it's a very long and very crooked ladder, and sometimes the rungs give out beneath your grip, and sometimes they've been dangerously greased by those who climbed before you, and sometimes the ladder itself is simply kicked down--either by those above you or, just as often, by those staring up from the ground below. There are a lot of people trying to climb that one ladder.But in a meritocracy, you can't blame the ladder or the other people trying to climb it. Nor can you blame the fact that all the good stuff is kept so many stories up instead of down at the ground where everyone can easily reach it. No, you must blame yourself. You should have tread more carefully. You should have climbed more quickly. You should have used a firmer and more precise grip, anticipated disasters, and known just when to leap. If you fail in a meritocracy, it's all your fault. You should have tried harder. Better luck next time.Kim Ki-woo (Choi Woo-sik), the young man who is the main character of PARASITE, several times refers to "metaphors," and the film itself is, of course, a metaphor. On a surface level, viewers are treated to a very thrilling, engaging, well-paced and well-plotted crime story. At all times, however, bubbling up from beneath the slick surface of this genre film, there are deeply personal, meaningful truths that should resonate with almost any viewer. These insights are rarely foregrounded. They are so subtly interwoven, in fact, that if you're like me, you may be completely surprised when the final shots of the film roll and you realize that you are emotionally devastated by the intimate, humanist story you've just witnessed. Bong Joon-ho's filmmaking is so extraordinary here that he'll make you fully invested in the lives of his characters without you even realizing he's done so.I want to avoid spoilers here, but suffice it to say that PARASITE is a masterpiece--beautifully lensed, enthrallingly edited, superbly acted, and intimately involving.South Korea has a population that is one sixth the size of the United States, and that population is stacked into skyscrapers in an area slightly smaller than the state of Kentucky. Higher education is widespread, so parents with means try to make their children stand above the pack by hiring them tutors and signing them up for extracurriculars and afterschool programs. I lived in Korea once, and the children I taught there were sometimes engaged in learning ten to twelve hours a day, six days a week--public school, English-immersion private school, piano class, soccer team, taekwondo, math camp, chess club, and so on. I routinely worked sixty to seventy hours a week on salary, but at bars I would meet young men my age who were expected to work far more than that, who slept at their desks so that they did not need to pry themselves from work for too long. As the father (Song Kang-ho) in the film at one point says, this is a country where fifty young men with college degrees apply for a mere security guard job. One can't afford not to struggle.The themes of this story are not just localized to Korea, however. They are the story of global capitalism, and the specter of American materialism (and imperialism; note the "Indians") looms heavily over the film. Meritocracy makes cannibals of us all. It's nice to dream, and sometimes the dreamers who plan and struggle well enough can indeed climb out of the basement and into the sunshine, and how nice an ending it is when they do. But the film also makes it clear that sometimes all that planning and dreaming may be, maybe, just whims and fancy. More often, it seems, our pipe dreams are content to leave us with nothing more than the whiff of spewed sewage.
This is a well written and well perfomed original film. With a lot of repetitive cinema these day i felt this was something new. I felt connected and engaged with the character throughout the film. There are several well directed tense moments throughout the film. A popular topic of class struggled well portrayed. Its always nice to see foreign language films having worldwide success.
Well written and performed also technically shines cinematography & bgm are too good and there's not even a single lag it's perfectly edited. Probably the best experience in recent times. Its pure art resembles the modern society the emotions they had shelved are insanely exceptional a layered masterpiece. If you like dark thrillers then you shouldn't miss Mr. Bong joon-ho's Parasite. Definitely tops the list of best movies in 2019.
"It's so metaphorical" is what Kevin says when they show him Da-Song's paint, he makes a statement without knowing absolutely nothing about what he is talking about, most critics of this movie say exactly that "It's so metaphorical" obviously Most know what you are talking about, when writing something about a movie I have to be 100% sure that I have understood."It's so metaphorical" This comment on this movie is quite fair and precise; Parasite is built on the basis of visual symbolism that for some it will be an easy task to find them and for others a little more difficult because it also does not put this type of visual metaphors in the foreground, sometimes leaves it to the public's interpretation and in others simply play with the camera and film techniques to tell us the story, a clear example is the first time Kevin visits the Park house, the house is shown in a low-angle shot from the ground showing the superiority of the house and the environment over the character, the rain scene in the middle of the movie is simply wonderful: the family plummets to its miserable reality and the camera descends in a peculiar way, as there are many examples throughout the film; the fight over the cell phone in the Park house looks like an animal fight, the shots in the Kim's house are closed and in the immense Park house they are open and wide, a lot of voyeuristic Hitchcokian shots and provocateurs of vertigo, the symbolic use of the stairs throughout the film, something quite coherent since the film speaks especially about the socioeconomic classes and the social and race stairs, are some simply steps over others. Who are the real Parasites? the Kims or the Parks? the film plays with this question and leaves the answer to the interpretation, the Kim who represent the great majority of the poor class in Korea and in the world act as parasites that will gradually owe the class that is above them, taking advantage of the comforts that it offers them without any difficulty, living under the ground and in precarious conditions, but on the other hand the Park are practically useless beings, there is nothing they can do: their children are educated by others, their clothes are ironed and washed by others and their food is made by others.Kim's family at least shows that Kevin is good at Languages, even better than many college students, his sister has great skills that lead her to create the perfect plan, even she manages to do what no sophisticated teacher did; control and support Da-Song, but due to their poverty their hopes that they can take advantage of this kind of talent are minimal. The final shot of the movie plays with us and gives the perfect blow to culminate this story: Kevin writes a letter to his dad that he probably won't be able to read, while he has a dream, after the dream the shot is the same that of the beginning, he It shows the exterior of the house from the basement this time without sun, showing that he it is where it began and that now its life is dark and empty of hopes.
Do you want to see a movie that will have your stomach in knots, anxious during many scenes? Do you want to see a movie that will have you conflicted on who you're rooting for? Regardless of your answers, see Parasite.
Parasite ticks along quietly until it is booming in your ears. The symbolism varies. Sometimes it is obvious, Bong Joon-ho might as well have made the subtitles spell it out. But other times it is more subtle, and you might realize a connection or symbolism days or weeks after. Bong Joon-ho is a master at that.
The conversation that it sparks is worth the $13-20 it costs to see the film. Parasite has made me think more than most films I've seen. Give it a watch, see it with friends or family and the dinner table will have a conversation overflowing with opinions and realizations.
Most of the time when my opinion does not jibe with the majority I am confident in my assessment. With this one I am not so sure for some reason. That being said I think it is ridiculously overrated. I just really did not find it to be anything special. I thought the Japanese movie shoplifters was infinitely better.
Finally saw this much talked about film. As a fan of Korean thrillers, this film surpassed my expectations.
The film is about a poor family who cleverly n cunningly become employed by a wealthy couple, posing as unrelated, highly qualified individuals.The film begins like a dark satire, it then proceeds into a captivating thriller n ends like a surreal crime, more of a social phenomenon.The film is very entertaining inspite of the sad stuff shown about poor fellas n not at all demeaning. It is very gripping n weirdly hilarious.
Song Kang-ho is one of my favorite South Korean actors and I've seen many of his films. However, I hadn't seen a Korean film since a long time, and once I heard all the good things about Parasite and the amount of acclaim it has earned, I couldn't stop myself from watching it. And whoever said it slowly transforms into something unexpected, wasn't kidding at all! Parasite started as a drama with shades of dark humor, before morphing into an edge of the seat thriller that keeps you captivated and shocks you to the extent that you can't even move. It's that spellbinding.The film can't be easily put into one genre, and that's true. Still, whether you like black comedies/dramas/thrillers or not, you must see this film at least once. It's just that you need to prepare yourself to be shocked because once the surprises start coming, you can't forget any of that for a long time. Parasite runs a little more than 2 hours but is so captivating that it might feel like the shortest 2 hours of all time.Words won't be sufficient to further describe this film's actual brilliance. I'm still spellbound. What started like a fun movie became something so surprising that it was hard to forget after it ended. It took away the very feel of watching a film. Whatever I saw just felt real, absolutely real. No doubt, Parasite is one of the most original films you'll see in the recent memory, and surprisingly has elements of almost every genre covered in its entire duration. Let's hope it wins big at the Oscars too!
This movie is so masterfully written and presented with a large cast that older audiences will realize how rare movies like this have become. Its enjoyment comes from getting to know the members of two extremely different families, one very poor, the other very rich. How their lives come together is the wickedly enjoyable first half; then, in the second half the house of cards begins to shake and finally collapse with a fury we both dread - and perhaps even enjoy. Though our enjoyment probably has as much to do with the movie-making skills than with the nasty turn of events in the violent final scenes.
If you see only one foreign language film this year, this should be it. Exciting and provocative throughout, it is wonderfully acted and packed with significance for all who live in a polarized society where so many live in luxury, while others live in comparative squalor just a few blocks away. Deserves all the accolades it has already - and surely will continue - to receive.
I thought I knew what was happening but it turns out I didnt even know what I didnt know.
Cinematography was so well done. Comedy relief at the exact moments it needed it. My stress levels at a max the entire last quarter I had to physically cover my gaping mouth with my hand.
As a film about a family imposing on another, and keeping dark secrets hidden beneath the surface, Parasite achieves what Jordan Peele set out to do with Us: tell a multi-layered story in a widely entertaining manner, but without sacrificing the believability of its central narrative.That's not to say that Us is an ineffective film by any means, but when it comes to crafting weighty social commentaries under the guise of lighter fare, writer-director Bong Joon-ho is in a class of his own.The film follows a lower-class South Korean family as they slowly integrate themselves in the lives of an upper-class family and their lavish household. As their entanglement is spun out of a web of deceit, the lowly family find themselves skating on thin ice when it comes to keeping up appearances.It's a twisty satire on social-economic disparities in South Korean society that swings broadly in tone, and sometimes threatens to tip over the edge, but never feels less than meticulously calculated in its tonal shifts.However, to reveal anything more about the story would be to take away from the overall experience, as each act is marked by a major plot twist or revelation that keeps the film one step ahead of the viewer at all times. Go in blind if you can and expect an unforgettable ride.
Well what can I say, Boong Joon-Ho is truly delivering here a masterpiece of cinema screenwriting and directing. This is an interesting, humorous and intense experience surely not to miss.You forget this is even a Korean film as you get vacuumed into a world of it's own - you won't be disappointed!!
Parasite (Gisaengchung), the 2019 film by Bong Joon-ho, taps into the tensions caused by the widening gap between rich and poor around the world.The film, delivering a strong social commentary that can be interpreted at a universal level, follows two families on opposite sides of the social and financial totem pole. It is a darkly entertaining and suspenseful look at a poor but incredibly cunning family living in a filthy basement and the rich Park family, the polar opposites of our protagonists. The film makes you play a guessing game of which of the two families are the most rotten.Winner of the Palme d'Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, Parasite shows the extent to which we go to in order to live a comfortable life. The devil is in the detail in this grotesque critique of social inequality and the psychology of money.
Parasite is a true work of art and a rare and extraordinary masterpiece that should be viewed by all, especially film lovers. If you're planning to watch this movie avoid spoilers at all costs. It will have you conflicted on who you are rooting for. Parasite taps into the tensions caused by the widening gap between the rich and poor around the world. It's a darkly, entertaining and suspenseful look at a poor but incredibly cunning family and the rich Park family, their polar opposites. The film makes you play a guessing game on which of the two families are more rotten. Parasite shows the extent to which we go to in order to live a comfortable life. It's best to go into the movie not knowing too much about what you're about to see, and let it's sly power sneak up on you. Who are the real parasites? The poor who attach themselves to the rich or the rich that suck the marrow of the poor.
Bong Joo Ho has been making ingenious social commentary for some time. That is not new. But this film reaches new heights, not through more extravagant plot but through a more naturalistic approach. As a result, the comedy, the stakes, and the insights here are at a different level. You care about the protagonists, and you feel the weight of their struggle. All the same ingredients are there (the social satire, the violence, the bizarre twists, the brilliant direction), but there's a new weight to this film. I don't think "masterpiece" is too strong, and I'm looking forward to watching it again some time soon.
Here's how i rate a movie the fast way, i ask myself two questions.
Who am I gonna recommend this movie to ?
Am i gonna remember this movie a year from now ?Beside the somewhat chaotically random events happening in the movie, Parasite wants to be way too many things at the same time, a deep serious movie with a message, a comedy, a drama, and a thriller, the mixture left me feeling confused and not really sure what to feel once it ended.It wasn't too bad, some scenes were super intense and enjoyable for thriller lovers. But I don't see myself recommending it to anyone who wants all these genres crammed in a single movie, nor do I feel anything from the story was amazing enough to stick with me in the future.
The film is ok but that's as far as I go. It's worth a watch but only a score of 6 for me. It's not a masterpiece, it's not film of the decade it's not even film of the year. I don't understand how people can give it 10, 10 is a perfect score. 10 is unachievable in my opinion as nothing is perfect.
'Parasite - an organism that lives in or on an organism of another species (its host) and benefits by deriving nutrients at the other's expense.'When working-class Woo-sik Choi gets a job tutoring Sao-dam, the daughter of the rich Park family, so begins the slow, progressive attachment of the parasite to its host. This is a domestic comedy/drama with universal undertones of class division that takes a dark turn in a climax that will leave you reeling. There are layers to the story which, without revealing the intricacies of plot, play on class tensions, identity and entrapment.A genre-bending tour de force from South Korea, deftly told by writer-director Bong Joon-Ho and brilliantly inhabited by an award-winning ensemble cast. In a meritocracy who is the parasite and who is the host? A cinematic ode to scratching below the surface of an all too perfect picture only to release a scurry of hidden roaches.
I felt a roller coaster of emotions watching this movie; everything about it so perfectly executed. What makes this movie insanely good is the actors, story, plot and narrative.Wow, just wow. I truly believe this movie, for me is going to be best movie watched for 2020. It's only January I know, but how the hell do you top this???
It's an experience, certainly, and I do recommend seeing it in a good cinema.Deakins was fantastic, absolutely, some stunning cinematography.But I found the movie incredibly disappointing overall. Feels like a missed opportunity, a very interesting experiment that just does not quite work.Most of the movie felt like a series of Call Of Duty cut scenes, a video game you had no control over, a really odd feeling, and some of the scenes were like a video game in content with reality stretched to almost breaking point.To me it was an adventure movie rather than a 'war movie', much more like Indiana Jones than Saving Private Ryan... To relate it to another movie I felt it reminded me very much of The Revenant in story and style, but like that movie it felt rather empty to me.
I knew nothing of the film heading into the theatre other than it was based on WW1.Cinematography, lighting, yes brilliant. That of course doesn't make a film deserve an 8.7 rating.This is a war film for the Marvel generation. There is limited emotion shown by the main characters, scenes that suspend reality and cliche, cliche, cliche.Our hero finds a bucket of unspoilt milk at an abandoned farmhouse beside the only cow in sight.A trip wire is tripped by a rat in a bunker in which the two soldiers are in, one is in scratched while the other is buried under rubble, He is dragged out of the rubble with not a scratch, only to have some dust in his eyes. Yet the explosion was so significant it forces the entire large bunker to collapse.Our hero is shot at by a sniper while crossing the bridge. I thought at this point that we finally might be able to see a tense scene. In other good war films this game of cat and mouse might have lasted several minutes. No need. Our hero somehow immediately locates the position of the sniper and is able to shoot and would him. Stunning marksmanship.Yet only two scenes later our hero is running through a town in rubble being shot at by German soldiers no more than 20 yards away and isn't hit.The worst part though, even worse than the tacky scene with the French woman and child, is his escapade down the river, through the rapids, and down a waterfall only the exit the river right at the point at which the battalion he was attempting to locate is luckily only 15 yards away.Things just seem to randomly work out for our hero, and quickly. There needed to be a few sequences where the hero is faced with the enormity of the situation, loneliness, desolation. Rather each time one chapter is finished he is immediately assisted in movies to the next.This film pales in comparison to films like Saving Private Ryan and Platoon. An opportunity lost. I left the cinema modestly entertained yet empty and disappointed.
It features a realistic portrayal of a true remarkable story following the appalling journey of two soldiers having to call off the attack against Germany.1917 is a massive technical achievement done right. The camera tracks this pair of individuals with a smooth good-looking one continuous shot for 110 mins! Despite it's not exactly one shot, the slick technique where it manages to trick the audience's eyes when a one shot jumps from the other is brilliant.Cinematography is riveting to the eyes. There are so many important close-ups that picture a thousand words of these two soldiers about their past and their emotional trauma of the World War 1 effect. The better thing is it knows when to pull back from those close-ups to reveal the true scale of the horrendous and the shock of the battlefield.Immersively done, 1917 sucks you into the sheer horror of experiencing the daunting moments of World War 1. You will feel as if you are walking with these men.1917 is a highly suspenseful film from the front 'till the end of the line. I can assure you, the intensity is greater than 90% horror movies in the last decade. Sam Mendes escalates the tense atmosphere little by little before he uncovers everything in the final 20 minutes.The set feels very much like a breath of air back in the early 1900s. It is unrelenting seeing objects, locations and soldiers are bombed into pieces, excellently enhanced by how specific the layouts are to justify the maddening era of bloodbath.Though feels gimmicky, the music projects a powerful influence in increasing the gritty war moments and giving the sense that every scene should be appreciated as much as possible.George Mackay & Dean Chapman's performances are great however, I wish they could give more. The former expresses his raw emotions clearly but sometimes, he falls flat and the latter's way of characters feels quite unbelievable due to Chapman's failure to construct expressions that is substantially connected to the impacts of war. For mega-awards like Golden Globe & Oscar, the lack of creativity to create nuances details on their face, resulted in them not nominated for Best Actor/Supporting Actor.1917 renders much of a survival movie like Dunkirk rather than non-stopping war shootings genre. The plot is where the downside comes. Mind that it is great and propulsively executed but the emptiness of the sub-stories is what 1917 suffers.1917 also hurts by putting in dialogues that does not drive the story further, but only to give a sense of what personality the characters embody.Verdict: 1917 is a warfare that feels immersive and nerve-wracking with its glorious cinematography and visual designs however, it occasionally steps into the landmines which is forgivable as the whole movie transmits an experience that is substantially novelty and worth living for.
First let me say the beginning sequences were shot almost perfectly. I was really into the first 20-25 minutes of the movie. I was engaged and thinking about how I was going to tell my sons that if they get a chance to go watch it in the theater. The cinematography and music were gripping.
Then..... as the 2 main characters (solider A and soldier B) get through the initial German traps, and enter into an open field with a cow, a barn, and a pale of fresh milk, the movie goes down hill fast. I was literally laughing at the ridiculousness of the plot and situations. A & B, whose duty it is to transport a message to (2) battalions, warning the battalions are falling into a German trap. Soldier A, has an older brother who is possibly going to be slaughtered in the trap.
With the cow and milk pale in the background, A & B find themselves helping a German airplane pilot out of his burning plane after witnessing an aerial dog fight. This is right after they go through hundreds of yards of seeing their dead countrymen. This is also after they almost get blown up (should have been into 1000 pieces) from booty traps (goonies reference). They help the German guy? Help him? Well, the German guy proceeds to knife Soldier A and kill him. That sequence made me almost leave the theater. I should have because the remaining parts of the movie just got worse. Soldier B still had a message to deliver. B proceeded to get picked up by a convoy of English Soldiers in trucks, who showed up a split second after the cow, milk, plane sequence. As if the trucks showing up was not ridiculous enough, the truck B was in got stuck in the mud moments later. B then convinces 15 or so other soldiers to help him push it out of the mud. Well, they miraculously do this, only to find that they can drive another few hundred yards.
Our message delivering solider B leaves them and then now has to make it past the storm trooper German snipers. I call them storm troopers, because just like storm troopers, they are unable to hit their target. On one of the first sniper situations, the sniper gets hit by a bullet, so B thinks. However, when B goes to check to see if he shot the sniper, he opens the door full swing with his entire body facing the wounded sniper. B then takes a bullet? Or something happens where he gets knocked back down a small flight of stairs. After he wakes, he evades some more storm troopers, then kicks open a small horizontal door to find a woman and a baby, along with a beautiful fire. Thankfully B had fresh milk.
B then leaves as it is getting close to morning. He evades a couple storm troopers only to find a younger storm trooper that he tries to shush. B actually puts his finger up to the storm trooper to shush him? Huh? Was this part of Jedi training? When that doesn't work he chokes him instead. Much to B's surprise, the choking worked better than the shushing. Go figure?
B then runs and runs evading lots of lots of laser guns. Oops sorry, bullets. Then he jumps into a raging river where he smashes his head. Thankfully he has a hard head.
If that is not silly enough, the rivers puts him exactly where he needs to be. Right up to a Battalion sitting in a large circle, listening to a guy singing. UGH, that was so bad.
B still needs to get his dry message that was soaked in the river to the commander. He proceeds to evade lots of bombs from enemy fire to do this. But thankfully B makes it. A cameo by Benedict Cumberbatch as the commander cannot save this flop.
B saves the second wave. B meets A's brother, even though he was in the first wave that was already deployed and supposed to be slaughtered.I just have to say why? Why do we need to accept these movies and call them Oscar winners? Yes, the cinematography should get an award possibly. Maybe the score. But the overall movie was just plain terrible.
The effort Sam Mendes has gone to to create an authentic WW1 setting is astonishing. The scenes of the trenches, dead horses, bomb craters etc really put you in the scenes, and I was blown away by the film from a visual point of view. My problem is that the plot holes in the story were as big as some of the bomb craters. And after leaving, I realised they were too many and obvious to allow me to enjoy the film. (I'm about to reveal spoilers, so don't read on if you haven't seen it).
So we all know that it's true that German forces retreated from trenches at times. As the distance between allied and opposing forces was as matter of yards in many cases, the fact they had abandoned their line would have been obvious over a relatively short period of time to the allies, because of air and recon intelligence.
When the rat triggered the trip wire, both men were literally on top of the trap. It was a big enough explosion to collapse the entire tunnel, but they both survived without a scratch.
After the pilot killed Blake, almost straight away, Schofield was suddenly joined by a huge troop of British Allies. Where did they come from? Why didn't they just take the message?
When they drop Schofield off, he immediately starts getting sniped, while the troops are presumably right next to him. Why didn't they shoot back to help? Where did they disappear to?
When Schofield is being chased, he kicks a door through in clear view of his pursuer, and the pursuer just runs on. Leaving Schofield to spend a random night with a woman and baby who happened to be surviving on their own with no food and water, hidden in the same ruins as German troops.
There are more. I won't labour the point, but once you start seeing the flaws, they just all add up to make what is a beautiful film just too implausible for me.
Sure, it had a few good cinematic shots.But the story felt hollow - cardboard cutout characters - generic message delivery through enemy lands. Almost feel like they did it by the numbers.
The +
+ Directing
+ Cinematography
+ SoundThe -
Very weak scriptZero character development.Many "just walking" scenes should be shorter.
After reviewing movies for many years I have a sort of formula when it comes to writing about the films I watch. If the movie is really bad I tend to write the review straight away so I can get it out of my mind and never have to think about it again. When a film is good, as I find most are, then I tend to wait two to three days to collect my thoughts, do some background research and write it with a clear mind. But occasionally I see a film which absolutely blows me away. These types of films come around rarely but when they do I have to really sit back, take a deep breath and comprehend just how I'm going to convey how good it is in words. 1917 is that type of film - a movie that displays technical wizardry behind the camera and amazing work in front of it. It's been six days since I've watched 1917 and I'm still in absolute awe of what I witnessed!The year is of course 1917. Deep in the heart of France British soldiers battle the Germans in what appears to be insurmountable odds. It's on the battlefield that we meet two young soldiers, Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (George Mackay). They've just been assigned an impossible mission by General Erinmore (Colin Firth): travel by foot behind enemy lines, avoiding German snipers and artillery, to find a British battalion that is about to walk into a trap set up by the Germans. It's a task so dangerous it will probably cost both men their lives, but if they fail it will lead to the massacre of 1,600 British soldiers. Adding to the urgency of the assignment, Blake's older brother is one of the 1,600 soldiers about to walk into the ambush!THE GOODAfter reading the above description you're probably wondering what makes this film so spellbinding. Well it's the way that it has been filmed that really puts it above other war films. Director Sam Mendes (Skyfall, American Beauty) and cinematographer Roger Deakins (Skyfall, Blade Runner 2049) have collaborated to come up with a style of filming that makes it look like one long tracking shot that never takes a break or cuts away.
We follow soldiers Blake and Schofield all the way through their mission in real time: walking though crowded bunkers, dodging snipers and crawling through mud as if we are there with them. As an audience member it's disorienting, confronting and an absolute cinematic masterpiece like I've never witnessed before. This is a film that just HAS TO be seen in the cinema to get the full experience. It's a movie that really shows the horrors of war with scenes that will shock you and sounds that will scare you. A lot of people may compare it to Saving Private Ryan but I think it may even be better than that!THE BADApart from a couple of nit-picky things there is nothing bad about this movie. There are cameos galore where the famous actor always has his back toward the camera and then dramatically turns around as if to say 'look it's me!', and a lot of the story does fall into place rather too nicely, but nothing took away from my enjoyment or made me feel as I was watching 'just another movie'. Throughout this film's two hour running time I felt as if I was on this mission with these two soldiers and absolutely nothing took me out of it until the very end credits.THE UGLYMendes has managed to capture the horrors of war in full, gory detail. From dirty, rat infested bunkers to brutal deaths and amputations, nothing is off limits as 1917 definitely doesn't glamorise what these brave men in the British armed forces had to go through. It may not be easy to watch for those of you with a weak stomach but it is probably a very accurate portrayal of what really happened in World War One.The saying 'you have to see it to believe it' is an accurate statement when talking about 1917. Nothing I write will do justice to the film which definitely requires a second viewing to fully take it in. It's war and it's ugly but the way it has been told is just as engrossing as what is being told. A must see at the cinema!FIVE MILITARY MEDALS OUT OF FIVE
I have a special fondness for movies that set technical limitations and still achieve full bodied, engrossing story telling. For example, Stephen Knight's Locke is one man, in a car, by himself - and it's riveting. Die Hard takes place (mostly) in a single blinding. 1917 sets a limitation for itself by presenting the movie as a single continuous shot. (It's really at least three, but that's beside the point.)The rationale is that this would immerse the viewer in the experience of the war. And despite Deakins skill in pulling off the achievement, I think it does the opposite. It's awkward at times, distracting, and gives up the foundational language of film: the power of editing. Some thoughts:Cutting focuses our attention, shifts our point of view, can put us both inside and outside the experience of the characters.The long shots of the characters walking toward the camera in the trenches are off putting. They are completely unlike the way we experience reality - how often do we hold a steady gaze on a single point while walking in real life? It's meant to be subjective and immersive, but it's the opposite.Things get better outside of the trench when the camera has more movement, but get worse in the ruined village, a sequence that looks more like a video game with new pursuers appearing in the channel behind him.The monotony of the single tales had me looking around the frame for the bodies in the mud, pressed in the trench walls, etc. - impressive art direction, but distracting, pulling me out of the story.The bodies sticking out of the mud were supposed to be horrifying, but they struck me as antiseptic. And one reminded me of Davy Jones ship in the second Pirates movie, which made me laugh inappropriately.The real problem is that we have scene this movie before. The plot is the same as Saving Private Ryan, or even Thin Red Line or the Naked and the Dead, which were also built around a single mission. I think Mendes tried to overcome a familiar story with the single take idea. I also think that he can't resist sentimentalizing the story and reaching for unearned emotion.The flaws of the movie are seen in the far to brief appearance of Mark Strong, who is strong, grounded, real, everything the rest of the movie is not. A more cinematic approach, and a story more grounded in human experience, and built out of characterizations like Strong's, would have been much more interesting.As it is, 1917 is a mildly interesting experiment with a conventional story at its center.
When that's the teaser for a new movie you just can't help but get pulled in...to what turned out to be, in the end, a bit of a disappointment.
I deliberately didn't read any reviews in advance of the screening I saw, but by the end if it I was left feeling that this was a mediocre piece of filmmaking that could have been much better...the story was unconvincing (surely they'd have sent at least two teams with that message), ditto the acting and I wasn't wowed by the cinematography. Sometimes long shots are useful in showing scale, and WW1 was horrific in terms of the sheer numbers of men needlessly sent to their deaths. There just wasn't a sense of any of that....
For me, Saving Private Ryan (sorry!) was able to convey the horror of war while telling an interesting story that had you hooked from the start and still had me thinking about it days afterwards. . For me, 1917 was forgettable.
Superb film making craftsmanship (& mostly excellent acting) wasted on a stupidly realised story. A technique of one long take stolen from the excellent film A RUSSIAN ARK, and adding nothing to the legacy of classic war films.Others have listed many of the unbelievable coincidences - flights from reality & infuriating deficits of the script, they are correct in their annoyance - the gaps in realism ruin this film & only the in-discerning, ignorant or cretinous would rate this film highly. .. It really is pathetic & an INSULT to those who fought in the war- on either side ! Is this film some sort of joke or experiment in gullibility?The cumulative effect is to make any reasonable adult viewer think that no-one was competent in the first world war !How daft is this for an idea-
There's an important message to deliver, the Germans have retreated from their trenches, so let's send a pair of nattering numpties to deliver it who have never had any experience being messengers... carrier pigeons & professional messengers seem to have evaporated into cinema-world-conceit. No-one warns them the deserted enemy trenches may well be booby-trapped . The commanding officer has no idea an other officer has been dead for 2 days , even though he's a 2 minute walk away... there is no CALL for a messenger to get through a throng of soldiers, they are sent down a 'one-way trench!'.. they look through a periscope & plan a route-Straight Ahead-, then turn around & travel at 90 degrees still encountering what they just saw... the can't seem to crouch & just amble along... they have no gloves & no-idea how to deal with barbed wire - (the cut hand is then placed on a decomposing body, gripped to pull a companion up & becomes even more inconsistent than the dire cliche riddled script).Then there's the farce of the rat trap explosion & miraculous unscratched skin (Hahahah- WTF); the farm house farce; milk pail preposterous ; standing right out in the open casually watching a dogfight... then the plane crash (etc!) ....if you can stomach all that you can swallow any crap... within minutes of getting behind the German lines a convoy of British troops in vehicles is ALREADY there.... sudden assertion by our hero -(unbelievable) lack of corporal/sergeant or other higher ranking officer in the truck...dropping him off by a seriously damaged bridge only 5miles away (1hour walk) but can't be bothered to supply him with any assistance... yawn...pathetic German snipers , amazing impossible shots... the stupidity becomes epidemic...Is this just a fulfillment power fantasy from a dying soldier, some extended comic strip dream sequence ? No- it is serious art don't 'cha know... & a really expensive piece of crap.
One of the best pieces of cinema I've ever seen.
A visceral, emotional and impactful depiction of WW1. It finds the perfect balance between a moving story and depicting the harsh realities of trench warfare.
I loved how the story is revolves around the idea of stopping a battle rather than showing war fare itself.
The cinematography is a feat in cinema history.
The direction is sure to win Mendes his 2nd academy award.
The production design is perfect.
The acting is glorious.
Watch this movie!! (In a cinema, preferably imax)
2 guys have to go 9 miles and deliver an important message.One guy dies.Other guy delivers message and goes to sleep.We meet a cow a pilot and a baby somewhere in the middle. None of these are important.
Exhilarating from start to finish, well deserving of the Golden Globe wins! A masterpiece I'm so glad I got to see in RPX. So well filmed with beautiful lighting, suspense, incredible action, and cinematography is top notch. I loved everything about 1917 especially the exciting night sequence and the I'm happy with everything that happens.
Try and see it on the big screen. The 'one continuous shot' method works very well thru the trenches but is probably not necessary elsewhere, apart from a few chase scenes. I came out of the theatre feeling overwhelmed but found I'd just about forgotten the film by the next day. Why was that? Because you never actually make an emotional connection with the main characters. Actually, there is no real character development. It's gripping at times but more a case of style over substance - worth it just for the style though.
Absolutely incredible - I've seen it 3 times in cinemas and each time I find myself even more in awe of, blown away by, and in love with this film. It's thrilling, tense, gentle, satisfying, and deeply beautiful. As a huge fan of the war genre, this is unlike any other film I've ever seen - it finds its true strength in its unexciting, human moments rather than in the mindless chaos of firefights, while still managing to have some of the most exhilarating and edge-of-your-seat segments I've ever seen. Schofield is a brilliant and unconventional choice for the lead character, and his empathy and softness have made him one of my favourite characters of all time and an exceptionally rare example of how quiet tenderness truly can carry a war film better than loud banter and hyper-masculine bluster so often does. Krysty Wilson-Cairns is a genius and George Mackay said so much more in Schofield's silence than most actors could hope to in the grandest monologue. A masterpiece.
... but a completely different experience. You are submerged during this time in the world that surrounds the main characters, close to what they're thinking/feeling. I found myself more than once trying to make the camera move to see another angle. It is impressively made.
Please dismiss anyone who criticizes 1917 harshly as overanalytical snobs, perhaps haters of blockbuster films, and assume that they secretly liked it, because really, how can one not. Sure, you can find fault with it; if I had directed 1917 I would have done a few things differently. Still, you just can't argue that it's not a masterfully-crafted film that is riveting pretty much every moment from start to finish.First, to anyone who might hesitate to go see the film because they think they will be subjected to the graphic violence and gore of, say, Saving Private Ryan, then don't hesitate anymore, and go see it. While 1917 is realistically gruesome, director Sam Mendes depicts the horrors of war - weird choice of words coming up, I know - beautifully. By that I mean, even the most horrifying and sad shots in the film, while highly stimulating in the aesthetic and emotional sense, are never extremely graphic, and you are never hit over the head with it. 1917, in this way, is a beautiful artistic masterpiece, never straying close to being shock art, but not holding back at the same time.What would I have done differently had I directed the film? I would have toned down the "bad guys can't shoot very well" clich. I know, it's dark much of the time, the hero is running and zigzagging through built-up areas which offer a lot of protection to an elusive target, and I don't mean to imply that our hero does not elude death at times because he makes some sound lightening-fast decisions; it's just that, at other times, that clich seems to rear its ugly head. Another implausibility in the film is, our hero spends probably a good ten minutes going for an unplanned, unintentional swim in the river, yet nothing seems to have gotten wet afterwards. Seriously nitpicking now for implausibilities, but as food in the trenches of World War 1 was scarce, and rations were measly, why then cast a chubby actor as one of the protagonists. There's a scene where he's grateful to be given a small crust of bread, and it's somewhat incongruous considering he looks so well-fed.What else? I'm not a fan of soundtracks that are seemingly intended to push the please-feel-something-now buttons, and 1917 has a button-pushing soundtrack. But at least the music is apropos, not sappy in any way. In general, I don't like the idea of war having a soundtrack, because soundtracks invariably glorify war.I'll be interested to read reviews from people who have had first-hand battlefield experience; I have not, so I don't necessarily consider above to be a credible critique. It's just how I personally experienced the film.
...is what I thought when the movie ended. Because this is what a cartoon about WWI would be like. Flat, one dimensional characters, a plot simple enough for a quick read, bad guys who are all slimy traitors (they stab you when you go pull them out of their own burning downed plane), and the traditional finish where the hero pulls off the difficult task. Think "Saving Private Ryan" with robot like, forgettable soldiers, accompanied by very loud soaring music to alert you of the upcoming shooting scene. I really wanted to like this movie but found it mediocre in all respects. Bah.
Another boring take on WW1.A General turns up at the front and tasks two corporals to find a lost battalion about to fall into a trap by those nasty Hun.It must be important as a General is within shooting range of a German.
But not important enough to get a pilot to find them and drop a note telling them to cancel the attack.
So important he sends two men instead of a squad of a dozen or even twenty.So we get a Perils Of Pauline wander through the German lines with pretty much every cliche thrown in to a melting pot of pretentious pap.
I wanted more, simply put.
1917 was directed by the extremely talented Sam Mendes and stars George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman on a journey to deliver a message to stop a British attack before it starts.Starting off with positives, it's immediately apparent that the work put into the set, costume, and sound design is among the best of the year, and Roger Deakins puts on a dazzling spectacle with his camera-work, making it look like the movie was shot in a single take (and in the titular year). But it's here where the movie begins to fall apart.While the technical aspects are top notch, the story and writing are just decent. The characters have a severe lack of depth and in a two-hour movie, it doesn't work in the movie's favor. Some may compare this to Dunkirk, which is a film that I think is one of the best movies ever made, which may prompt the reader to question why I thought 1917 was just okay.The pacing. That's the movie's biggest problem, unlike Dunkirk, which was almost entirely break-neck in its speed. While the pacing in 1917 is by no means bad, it isn't fast enough to justify spending so much time with characters that the audience doesn't have much reason to care for. Also there's a couple moments that made me question the intelligence of the two leads. Similarly, characters come and go throughout the movie, making criminal underuse of actors like Colin Firth and Andrew Scott.I understand that most of war is downtime, but downtime in film isn't engaging, at least not without characters to care about or good dialogue to speak. Most of the movie is spent walking, this may be credited to the one-take method the movie is using, which begins to feel like a gimmick the more it goes on.Overall, 1917 is an extremely competent piece of war cinema, but one that sacrifices dialogue and characters in lieu of a camera gimmick. While it's by no means a bad movie, I don't think it warrants the seemingly infinite praise it's receiving.
66/100
Out of ideas, they decide to do the one-take style that the Revenant, Roma, and Birdman did, but oh, for some sort of originality, let's just do it for war, and at that let's pick WWI so people don't confuse it with Nam or Private Ryan.Sure, camerawork looks good, kudos, but the shoehorning, lack of a script, mediocre acting, deux ex machina, no character development, and suspension of disbelief turn this into a sort of dumbed down cartoon of a war picture. The only emotional scene was in the final 30 seconds, Everything else, basically was implausible. The fact that some people are raving about and loving this movie shows that either a) the studio, Mendes and those involved have hired a bot army or shills to hype it up, or b) moviegoers are that desperate and dumbed down, but it's probably a combination of both, leaning more towards a) as the predominant reason.Plot armor like Commando, a ridiculous scene about milk, and soldiers administering dangerous enemies with nursing like they were their family member makes the whole script unrealistic and implausible.
Not since Tom Arnold hid behind a signpost in True Lies has a move character been as bulletproof in a movie as lead protagonist Will.Yes amazingly filmed but the rest of it is just a steaming pile.The plot is terrible and it makes this a bad movie
This film proffers a realistic presentation of a WW1 battlefield and of the threats, the physical terrors, of such a place, but it is actually like a hybrid mediated version of that reality. The result is something like following an avatar in immersive game. This impression is confirmed at the film's end.When it starts the camera has the viewer in the middle of the action and immediately the cleanliness of the soldiers, their spotless uniforms, their fresh faces seem at odds with the mud and shell fire. Then their dialogue is phrased and framed around a type of theatrical form. It needn't be crude or ignorant but it conveys a polished and mannered styling of men talking.Into the action of the film, the two leads take us through the hell of Flanders with mud, rats and corpses, and as these sequences proceed it seems as if the grammar, the structure of the drama is like a multi-level game where the avatars start on one level and then move onto another encountering new places and dangers along the way. As the film progresses it becomes increasingly clear that this is the logic to the film's pacing and drama.The impression is sealed in the second half when our hero is lost in a shattered village and meets a woman - nice quiet moment in the game here - and escaping the ruins falls over a steep waterfall and lands in lush country. Where such a high waterfall is in that part of Belgium is a mystery, and then to enter a sylvan land is even more mysterious. It as if he went up to level 8 in the game.Then there is a battle scene with troops going 'over the top' while enemy shells rain down; meanwhile our hero is running as these shell bursts but do not disturb his relentless legs, nor shake the earth, never mind that the shock waves would upend a normal man.It's not Passchendaele, nor any battle front as documented, but it is like a game where you are a courier sent on a deadly mission to deliver a message before the lives of 1600 men are potentially squandered.It's not as if the film industry hasn't perpetrated a fraud with history, this one just seems more insincere than most.
First off, this is NOT a war film. It is a movie about the bond of men in war. It is by far the best movie I've seen in a very, very long time. I had high expectations and was not disappointed. At first I was eager to see the one shot idea Sam Mendes went into this with but, after awhile, I stopped paying attention to that. While everything about the movie was well done I was so caught up in the two central characters that nothing else mattered. I will watch this again and again.
Having read a lot of history, this movie falls a bit short in the realism dept. The story is paper thin and unbelievable. Cineamatics are nice. The soldiers are unbelievably undertrained and would not have been chosen for such a vital mission. The main soldier should have been killed many times over due to poor choices. Felt like watching a Commando like movie with soldiers unable to hit targets 20 ft in front of them.
Two young English soldiers (possibly Cockney) must deliver a message across enemy lines to save 1600 men from certain annihilation - and one of them has a sibling in the doomed attack.Technically, directorially, cinematographically, 1917 is stunning; amazing. As you probably know, it's supposed to consist of one continuous 2-hour shot. Hitchcock, eat your heart out.Nearly 500 rank-and-file digital artists alone might tell you different, and I'd be interested to learn about the size of the camera disk drive they used, if it was 'one take'.Emotionally, 1917 is suspenseful, scary, shocking, sad, exciting, nightmarish, and yet: your engagement with the two main characters is more to do with 'what will be thrown at these actors next?', rather than 'what will happen to this person I really care about?'It's like watching someone play a massively multiplayer online WWI game, with graphics and camera movement that blows the competition away because it's actually staged. It's not like feeling anger at the stupidity of war, or feeling grief at the deaths of thousands over a pointless dispute between royal cousins - any Germans certainly get a very rough ride from the script.1917 is impressive in the way 'Saving Private Ryan' was impressive, but not as moving in the way 'Paths Of Glory' and many others were emotionally moving.Ten stars for technique, five for throwing money at a series of old soldiers' gory tales without any more context than, 'Wow, look at this!!'
It's good but nowhere near great.A few good shots and suddenly it's oscar material?
If you read the previews saying what this film is about, well -- that's it. Two hours of following the two soldiers, then one, try to get the extremely important message to save 1,600 lives.It is intended to look like one uninterrupted take, but is actually a bunch of longs takes (longest was 9 minutes) stitched together perfectly at points where detail was not critical, like following William running from the other side of a fragmented wall, in the dark.The good:Outstanding set. Pristine, spotless mostly, even beautiful, but not realistic.Cinematography. From a technical point of view, outstanding. I can't imagine better, given the one-shot requirement by the writer/directory. But, boring after the first long fast walks through trenches.Special effects. Excellent, I think, which means not obvious -- most of the time.The bad:1. There is NO story. Let's just say one, get the message to the commander about being ambushed. 2. Way too many narrow escapes. All those open shots at William and not one hit him. Most of them not even close. 3. Everything dead except a cow. Plus a bucket of milk fresh enough to drink and no one around to milk the cow. 4. Planes flying over that could have easily dropped a message to the commander in a short length of time, but no, let's do it the nearly impossible way. 5. A beautiful woman with someone else's unexpectedly in the basement room where William ducks into while being chased. And, guess what, he has a canteen full of milk. The baby coos and makes happy noises though starving. There goes the one long take. 6. William walks up on a huge group of soldiers with one standing in the center singing and no one notices or questions him, even after several minutes. 7. Plenty of time and skill to tiptoe across the broken side of a bridge and jump 5 or 6 feet from one narrow (6 - 7 inches) beam to another. I wonder how many times that took. One screw up and they have to start over at the beginning -- one shot. 8. Clean cloths, clean, shaven faces, nice perfectly white teeth. 9. Zero character development.I could go on and on.I couldn't wait for it to be over, but always expecting it had to get better because of all the reviews. Two stars for cinematography and set design.
Not many films have been made on World War I, so I was interested in seeing what Sam Mendes would bring to the table when I went to an advanced screening of this. The movie is absolutely breathtaking and thrilling. The cinematography makes you feel as though you are joining these 2 soldiers every step of the way. Each action sequence in the film keeps you on the edge of your seat. I would definitely say this is an IMAX kind of film and highly recommend that everyone sees this in theaters for the best experience. This is without a doubt the best war film since Saving Private Ryan.
I don't feel like I know the characters at all. I have no idea why the two soldiers were friends or what they had been through together.The cinematography tried so hard to make this an emotional shocking movie that it had the opposite effect. War scenes with gratuitous up close views of corpses and body parts that don't add anything to the story got old quick.Good effects crappy movie.
This story follows a journey, mainly shot real time...and the cinematic visuals make the viewer think they are part of the story.
Night scenes with flares give a surreal feel
and the camera operations are supremely executed. The sense of being with the 2 men is real as good as it can be.
Moving story, very well choreographed action, brilliant for the actors to play and very gritty and real looking trenches and buildingsThe story...it shows the futility of war particularly WW1.
Worst war film I have ever seen! Don't waste two hours of your life, most exciting bit was a van getting stuck in mud! Terrible pantomime acting!
Saw this film at tiff's secret movie club which was also the film's north American premier. This is a well made war film with technical aspects being really stand out. It is a towering achievement for cinematography, the sound work is top notch, the depiction of front lines, trenches, the mud filled with rotten corpses was incredibly powerful and Sam Mendes did a masterful directing here.However I've had some issues that I think really hurt the film and leave a bad taste:1. There are a few scenes here that probably belong to James Bond flicks than a realistic world war film. I won't spoil anything but I wonder how Mr Mendes would have made this before Skyfall.2. Again there are some events that are highly dramatized and some of them feel just dumb/unrealistic. I don't know how much control did Mendes have on this production but I was really annoyed at certain times.Overall I think this is a worth-watching, expertly made war film that would've been a great one but it's still enjoyable.
I really gave this a for strictly because of the technical merit. As far as reality in this movie goes it sucked as I said, where did the bucket of milk come from? Who's going to pull an enemy pilot out of a burning plane and not disarm him? Who's going to suffer and then closed explosion underground without having busted eardrums. The whole town in the dark sucked. Who's going to allow a man to walk up on a group of soldiers sitting around singing kumbaya songs getting ready for their last charge to meet their maker and not stop him. It just sucked disappointed me to no end because of the the rationality of the whole thing.
Saving Private Ryan in WWI but boring and tedious and unrealistic. OMG someone died in a war-stop the presses! I felt like Elaine watching the English Patient with Peterman.
Where to begin? This opiod fueled pile of garbage drained my heart and soul. It was so bad i cried laughing. Just a few points of absolute stupidity:1.) Absolute cheat codes used in every scene harry potter esque invisibility cloak2.) Swear at germans for 1hour firsr german they see they try to save3.) All tbe fkin cows ar eshot dead apart from one whole cow which milked itself and the germans who trip wired, blew up, cut down TREES poisoned the well decide to leave the milk ina bucket which the blade runner happens to need later bht not once drinks from again3.) A wounded almost dead pilot manages to shank a man to deathSaid pilot manages to crasg land into tbe one standing structure in the entire plains of france4.) He takes foreeveeeer to cross a bridge he coulda just jumpes 1 meter to cross ( bare in mind he jjmped bljnd across a mine shaft)5.) Sniper takes forever to take his shots misses every single one tbe bullets are clearly not coming from that direction yet he bassicly no scopes him in 3 in some weird stand off. Germans retreated h say? Clearly not6.) He runs like an absolute chicken a german sees him misses front point blank and i shit u not like in call of duty decides to lay down to take a shot. No one else appears to pay attention to this. He kicks a door in tbe one remaining building in the town and low and behold a lass is there witha fkin child which isnt hers needs milk he happens to have wtf is she gna do after tht canteen is done? What did she do before?!?!?7.) Germans getting drunk on the front line because yh why not fk it8.) Kills german (god he killed mroe people with his hands then with his gun) then decides to rugby tackle the other and run away and jump into a river which be somehow communicated with tbe french girl about.9.) Survives the river and manages ti sneak up on AN ENTIRE BATTALION which somehow missed the stragling germans in tbe town maybe thats how as they were demented. Sat down and had a listen to a song whilst time is of the essence. Cute.10.) He asks for the general and goes over the top literally half a second before everyone else and what does the sargenat say? ' what you doing you madman???' Or some shit like wtfffffff11.) General lets a wave go refuses to read a fkn letter ljke who does that.12.) Lord two planes fly around tbe place coulda just threw loads of leaflets or some shitAnyone with half a brain who says this film is good should be imprisoned. It was an opiod micheal bay esque film. Decent cinematography.Total failure. Honest to god the storyline jn battlefield 1 was better a ps4 game.For a damn war movie it was total bullshit
Predictable and horrendous. The acting was terrible and the story was common and nonsense. The only exciting part about the movie was the very end when finally people were dying and it represented WW1. I highly doubt he met a strange woman with an abandoned child and I highly doubt any of this even happened. This movie was Saving Private Ryan, but boring and predictable.
What happened to the Sam Mendes, from works of substance like 'American Beauty' and 'Road to Perdition' to somewhat juvenile, empty of soul films like '1917', where deep characters and real emotions are subverted for theme rides. Here, of all subjects to use for a theme ride, "the Great War" is a vehicle for an action adventure, fantasy-esque quest, that not only sheds little about the horrific war itself, but sanitises the sacrifice of young men by a corrupt elite on both sides of the war, who profited heavily from their demise. But you might say, "Elcid, this is a popcorn action flick, you got to switch off your brain mate, enjoy the ride...", yet even for mindless action, I never felt at the edge of my seat, and all of the meant-to-be tense and gripping scenes felt forced and contrived, and you could see the actors reacting to cues rather then immersed into Sam's world of make believe. There are two truly great scenes in 'Children of Men' (Alfonso Cuarn), both near the beginning and near the end, where the action takes place in one shot, and here the veracity of both the characters and their environment is so powerful that you truly feel immersed and haunted by the scenes. In interviews, Mendes says he was inspired by these scenes, but it seems by trying to emulate them, he has missed a trick - to justify the story within them! Therefore it feels like you are watching someone else play a video game, where the main protagonist has 9 Lives and reaches number 8 before he succeeds to the final level boss - an underwhelming encounter with Benedict Cumberbiatch (sic) who says "foff" and the audience foff too, to recollect on a lost 2 hours. The score by Thomas Newman is also misplaced and pass - think a Hans Zimmer rendition of Lord of the Rings'. The only redeeming feature is the cinematography by Roger Deakins, yet even here, it inevitably draws comparison to the superior cinematography of Emmanuel Lubezki ('Children of Men'), and whilst it is interesting to purely admire the technical achievement and continuous mis-en-scene in one shot (with hidden cuts), I think such a scheme ultimately ends up stealing the emotional veracity from the characters since we never really get up close and personal to them to see their eyes - their windows to the soul. The distance makes for a mute joy ride, and it is a shame as rather then free Deakins to bring out the best in the visuals, the one-shot idea has constrained him. There is to my knowledge only two great audio-visual works on WW1 and they are Blackadder Goes Forth (TV Series) and 'Paths of Glory' (Kubrick), alongside great films about all wars, from 'Full Metal Jacket' to 'Apocalypse Now', 'Catch 22', 'Salvador', 'The Battle of Algiers', to name but a few.
I really don't understand all the rave reviews on this film. It is tedious and boring. The dialogue is stilted. If you enjoy watching men walk through trenches, then this is the film for you.
April 1917, the Western Front. Two British soldiers are sent to deliver an urgent message to an isolated regiment. If the message is not received in time the regiment will walk into a trap and be massacred. To get to the regiment they will need to cross through enemy territory. Time is of the essence and the journey will be fraught with danger.I had highish hopes for this movie. Written and directed by Sam Mendes, who gave us such superb films as American Beauty, Revolutionary Road, Road to Perdition and Jarhead, and massively hyped this looked like it should be one of the best war films to come out for a while. Turns out, it's not.The plot is interesting enough but that's about it. 1917 doesn't go anywhere new, say anything profound or even provide a large amount of entertainment. It's an odyssey involving characters who are clumsily drawn and aren't particularly engaging, with some goodish action scenes that are few and far between. The military side is okay but not 100% plausible.If you were hoping that this might be a confronting drama, showing the wastefulness of war, there's elements of that but it has been done before and done better and more jarringly. It's only confronting and profound if you've never watched a realistic war movie before, and even then it's probably not graphic or engaging enough to make a profound point regarding war.Overall, it's okay, but not great, and quite disappointing.
Weak writing, overall unrealistic and definitely overrated.
Worthwhile watching.
Can't really complain. But it lacked something that made me connect 100%
Plus there were a couple details in scenes which did not add up
Will it receive awards? Yes especially for the cinematography.
Will it be one one those movies everyone sees? Probably
But will it be remembered as a 100 % masterpiece?
Well... you decide
... felt like watching a video game. The plot is non existent, the acting mediocre, the score disappointing.It starts feeling like this is what we get nowadays; grandiose beautiful looking expensive movies (most taking place in the past so it's easier to romanticize them) but without substance or any real storyline whatsoever.1917 is a pure example of this symptom, a big budget movies with lazy writing. Totally forgettable.
I was expecting an exciting war film right up there with saving private Ryan.
What I got was a slow, boring and unimaginative story line..
Well shot but at times i wanted the camera to pan out so i could see more.. Overall I walked away very disappointed.. How some people give this a 9 or 10 is ridiculous.
"1917" is technically impressive. The entire movie is filmed with some clever cuts in a way that makes it look like a single shot (similar to the style of "Birdman"). This style and the impressive sets give it a lot of realism. Unfortunately, the movie is emotionally empty (with the exception of the two scenes) and the plot is paper thin.
5/10
Went to see this because of the hype. Yes it has some great moments, but a lot of cliches - milk for the baby, tell mother I love her - and too many coincidences - the river takes him to his objective, the brother is quickly found after they go over the top.
Good for Sunday afternoon television, but it fell short of the target for me.
The story is a cliche and the performance is awful, I wonder how people thought of comparing it to the Saving Private Ryan.
So we have letter that has orders from the General that needs to be delivered by foot that is miles away to stop 1600 men being massacred. Our hero has been shot at and is on the run and jumps into a river which has a very strong current and for miles he travels then going down a high waterfall and survives to hand over the letter which seems to have no damage and maybe waterproof ink. There is so many other plot holes which I wont delve into. Loved the cinematography and cast but too many blatant flaws. Shame
I know there are not many "well made", WW1 films and this one doesn't make the grade . Nothing new to see here and recommend watching Masterpieces such as Gallipoli and All Quiet on the western front.
This is what happens when you make a war film and spend all of your military adviser budget on soy lattes. This film is so historically inaccurate it makes Braveheart look like a documentary.
The only thing dumber than the characters and plot are the people giving this film a 10 out of 10.
I'll concede that the film is well shot and the cinematography is okay but certainly not worthy of the universal praise being heaped on it, not unless you think someone walking backwards down a trench with a steady-cam is the most impressive thing since someone figured out how to digitally edit a "single take"
I can not understand for what nominated this movie for oscar... so poor story, poor acting. I like just musics of movie
It took a minute or two for me to regain composure as this iMax experience rolled it's credits. Devastated would probably describe my state as I returned to the real world.
I wasn't sure how the first person (apparent) single shot structure of this movie would work out for me. I did enjoy, if that's the word, Dunkirk and the intimate view of the setting and characters. Immersive is the word of the decade and it can prove tiresome.
As the opening sets us on a journey, I was aware this was going to be a technical marvel. This is the frustration of being a cameraman. I literally hold my breath when an impossible move or a focus pull is executed. I know the pressure of having to get it right first time, but on these budgets it's ramped up to 110%.
I'm not averse to these techniques, Cloverfield and even the Blair Witch made it work really well. In this case I thought it was so beautifully executed, that after ten minutes, I had pretty much forgotten it and was totally drawn in.
Much of the credit must obviously go to the DOP, Roger Deakins and a team of grips that pulled this off so flawlessly, however the lead actors literally suffered through every step of the way and I take my hat off to them all.
George MacKay has been an actor I have watched grow through a variety of films over the last few years and I think he is destined for a long career. His deeply moving, but perfectly understated performance was the main cause of my emotional connection with the whole movie. He is in every single moment and you feel the brutality and exhaustion for the duration.
Incredibly, Mr.Deakins manages to create a series of beautiful frames, even though he is physically miles away from the camera for most of the time and the majority of the film is using available light. One particular series of shots is a masterclass in dynamic lighting and becomes a work of classical imagery evoking Turner.
For all these reasons I would advise this to be seen in an iMax if possible to achieve the maximum effect, it also proves that we really don't need 3D?
How the leaders of the World's nations even consider conflict after the last two catastrophic wars I will never understand. I can only assume they are too consumed with hatred for humanity to spare the time to watch a film like this and learn.
Expected better, It;s worth seeing but don't buy into all the hype that it's great, it's a little boring to sit through.
The cinematography of this film is amazing as expected from Roger Deakins ! It has beautiful shots and some great actors ! But the screenplay is very awkward/cheesy at times and seems like a classic oscar bait film overall ! Could have been a great film 6,5/10
Very cool cinematics but lacking in the plot. The shots are indisputably amazing but the story was lacking a good climax.
OK I did listen to the hype so was expecting the continuous shot footage to be engaging and special. But no, this film has the same hype as Dunkirk, both films are boring frankly, I did not care about the characters at all, running around without any common sense to their actions. I think I will give up on the cinema I am so fed up of the critics over hyping how good a film is.
On this film the characters were instantly forgetful and the poor actors will now be dragged around the world.being interviewed about a very less than average film.
Saw this movie today. Thought that it has been highly pushed and overrated. Acting is good, not excellent. Scenery not much better than most war movies. Hard to believe that any of the storyline could have happened. As a Vietnam era Veteran thought that this was very much a fantasy film.
This film is simply beautiful shot, incredibly composed, fantastical directed and will be seen as one of the greatest war films of all time!
I felt dirty, I felt tired, I felt hungry, I felt a will to succeed and I felt sadness when I was watching the movie. It felt like I was also fighting to reach Colonel MacKenzie for two hours. Several hours later after my emotions are still outside my body.
Fantastic photo and music. Good casting of staff.
The movie is just perfect!
One of the best films I've seen in a long while. Worth seeing on a big screen. Cinematography is outstanding, the one shot process really makes you feel as though you are there. The two leading actors really grasped the concept that human contact can be so strong, especially in such awful situations as war. Insightful, moving and an overall amazing watch.
I absolutely loved this movie. The first few minutes moved a little slow but it soon changed and I was complete enthralled in every scene. I was moved. I felt like I was right there going on the journey with the main character until the end of the movie. It was hauntingly beautiful and the music is moving and powerful. I will buy this movie for home viewing
...other than this film deserves multiple Oscars, including the cameraman!
This is really a must see movie for anyone who loves movies. How they achieve what they do in this movie is totally beyond me? I have never seen anything quite like it. I had heard about the single long take, but was really not expecting what I saw.Its a simple story about a WW1 soldier taking a note to a general across enemy lines, but what makes it so special is that we are with him every step of the way. We travel through the trenches, the mud and the gore, we encounter the dead, the dying and the sheer horror of war and are subject to every explosion and gunshot along the way. We live every moment of the struggle as if we were there.I cannot imagine any other film more deserving of awards than this. No big stars dominating, just one AMAZING move.
For such a simple film, it's quite intense. Between the writing, acting, and directing, it was hauntingly terrifying to see on the big screen. It's shot in the style to make it all look like one scene, which only adds to the intensity because you feel like you're right there with the soldiers. A gunshot goes off and you nearly jump out of your seat, half-expecting it to be you that was shot.
Unfortunately, I don't think I'll be able to watch it a second time because of that intensity, though. It was brilliantly made, but intense enough that I can't recommend it to just any fan of war films. It may touch a little close to home for some, and that's something very important to keep in mind when deciding whether or not to watch it.
I really enjoyed 1917 because the acting and the filming was fantastic.
The editing was really good too defenetly worth watching
Very special realisation, story looks simple but the film is just great.
Oscar race front runner, Golden Globe winner, many other recognitions.. All these were enough reasons to see it on the first day.. Went with high expectations, and totally satisfied by the output. One of the best war movies ever made in Hollywood. It succeeded in evoking the human emotions, and the viewers felt the fear, pain and tension in a war front without many battle scenes. Sam Mendes, the captain beautifully blended all the departments. Wondered by the single shot-like movie flow from Roger Deakins camera and Lee Smiths cuts. The sound design and mixing were top notch for Atmos screen. Production designs were also praise worthy.Don't miss the theatrical experience.
A Must Watch !!!
One of my most anticipated films of 2019 was 1917. What makes this film so grand is it's emotional power, technical innovation, and unforgettable attention to detail. What has attracted so many audiences is the camerawork. The camerawork has been praised so much it might seem like overselling it. If anything, we're underselling it. It is designed as two extraordinarily long, unbroken shots. It puts you directly into the film as though you're the third person in the mission. But this film does something very special and that is how you often forget about the "gimmick" because of the masterful story and the tour de force, starmaking performance from George MacKay who brings so much physicality and emotion to each and every sequence in the film.The writing is straight forward. It's about two British soldiers' treacherous mission across enemy lines in France. It excels in realizing its scenario with each set piece. Simple and straight forward to be sure, but shows how to do simple and straight forward the right way.The technical work is outstanding work all across the board. The sound, the visual effects, and of course the sheer size, detail and greatness of the production design. It's amazing work throughout such as the mine, No Man's Land, or the destroyed town. Beautiful stuff. The cinematography is one of Deakins' greatest achievements. It brings you into every shot. Every shot that is so gorgeous in its visual details of so many kinds. I mean he has amazing scenes of the grey No Man's Land, he also somehow finds the most photogenic way to show foxhole gridlock, it is fascinating. He creates just one painting after another He creates a beauty to every time or type of day. The shot of the changing flares/bombed out city is one of the greatest shots of all time and in itself is worthy of an Oscar win.The score might be one of the most underrated aspects of the film. It's tremendous and it's Newman's crowning achievement.This in creating such gorgeous pieces of work, that does definitely owe a debt to Zimmer's work for Thin Red Line and Dunkirk, making use of every bit of his orchestra. This in creating work essential to each scene in building the tension of every sequence, while also just being incredibly beautifully grand pieces on their own.Sam Mendes does not waste one thing at his disposal. Everything matters. Everything clicked.. Whether it be the production design, Deakins, the sound, the score, the effects and even the editing that makes it all invisible. This is a must watch for fans of Mendes, war films, or just great movies in general. It brought me chills and left my mouth wide open several times. Anything short of an Oscar would be a disservice. I can't wait to watch it again.
At the time of writing this, 1917 is up for 10 Oscars, fresh off the high of winning best drama at the Golden Globes. I haven't poured into exactly what it is nominated for, but I know that it is up for best picture and best cinematography. Unfortunately, I can't say I agree with the academy on it being a best picture contender. That being said, this is some of the most brilliant cinematography I have ever seen in my life. For the uninitiated, the film is shot in such a way that it seems like it is all done in 1 or 2 scenes. I know some big name films have done this before, but this is my first experience with the style. When you combo that 1 take with the brilliant picture and color that 1917 provides, you end up with a stylish and enthralling story that would have otherwise felt lackluster. Definitely worth a watch and a cinematography Oscar.
Review:
'1917' is an epic-war film directed by Sam Mendes. It is based in part on an account told to Sam Mendes by his paternal grandfather, Alfred Mendes.
What a beautiful film! It's a stunning watch from start to finish. The amount of work that went into this film alone deserves your attendance, and even then, the story never stalls, and has a fair balance between war and humanity, and has some of the most incredible camera work I've seen in a while.
The film chronicles the story of two young British soldiers (Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay) during World War I who are given a mission to call off an attack doomed to fail soon after the German retreat to the Hindenburg Line during Operation Alberich in 1917.
Without trying to sound like an ass, because the source material for this film is so powerful, but the performances from the two leads were mediocre. They make you care about their characters which is important, but they don't really embrace them. We get small parts from Colin Firth, Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch who all bring amazing performances in the little screen time they get.
This is a gorgeous film and it's not just due to the fact that it has amazing editing to look like a single shot, but the cinematography is stunning. There was no slow part in the movie and the audience is enthralled with the journey from the first minute of the film.
Overall, it's easy to see why this film was nominated for Best Picture along with others. It's an incredible film that should be seen by everybody.
5/5
Great character development, a story of courage, love, friendship, giving way to interpret different ends, totally recommended, great Movie.
It is refreshing to watch a war movie that truly makes you feel every emotion from love, to terror, to sadness and beyond in the span of a couple of minutes.
The cinematography is a true masterpiece, seamlessly edited.
All the actors deserve a standing ovation and have my utter admiration.
I honestly don't understand the high ratings of his film! I see people writing
"it's as good as saving private Ryan" please do NOT compare this film to saving private Ryan. It doesn't even come close to it. I left the cinema underwhelmed and did not get the climax I wanted considering it's a war movie. I mean, why call it a war movie when there's not even any action ?????!!!!!! And the beautiful visual and single shot film isn' good enough to call it a good film. Save your money and wait for it to come out on Netflix or another streaming service.
REVIEW - 1917UK RELEASE DATE 10 JANUARY 20There are only a few films which have been shot in 1 continuous shot and after watching this film honestly the cinematography is absolutely amazing!As far as I could see there is only 1 transition which is used to turn day into night but this can be very easily ignored as this film in its depiction of how futile war is, is one film to definitely consider going to see.No spoilers, you follow 2 young soldiers ordered to deliver a message which will save 1,600 other soldiers.The true devastation of war is shown and I can't even imagine how this film was made as you follow these 2 young soldiers following orders.Slow in places but as it is set in real time (except for the transition mentioned above) even war can't be action all of the time.Don't go expecting a Hollywood big blockbuster because this is muddy, bloody and real to the end.A must see!Rating 10 out of 10
What an experience this was, despite all the suffering and horrors of war depicted in this movie,it was so immersive and intense it made me want be there,that how good this movie is
This movie could have been done in 30 minutes. Terrible waste of money and a total snooze fest.
Sam Mendes, did not disappoint with this great one shot film, unlike any war film that I ever have watched, harsh & beautifully crafted flowing perfectly with excitement at every corner!
Its like i watched the trailer of Battlefield 1 (videogame).....
I get the feeling someone had the "bright" idea of "HEY, lets shoot a movie and make it look like one continuous shot" ..... "ok, what kind of movie, whats the STORY?", ... "Who cares, lets just shoot a movie THAT way"The whole 'continuous single shot' , ......... BFD, if anything, it was actually distracting.
Would like to explain in greater detail/examples but spoilers.Are ppl raving about the soundtrack? cuz even THAT was unremarkable.I was expecting 'EPIC', i feel i got 'Slapped Together' relying WAY too much on a bad idea and too much emphasis on the 'continuous single shot' style.
This movie is just boring. If you watch Saving Private Ryan oh man that took you right into the battle of World War II. Amazing. Then comes this movie, two guys walking on mud and talking all the time. Then they see some other soldiers and they talk some more. Then they walk some more. Then they ride for a bit. And then at the end they walk and talk again.No idea what I just watched. I don't understand why this get such high reviews. It's just plain terrible. I wanted to like this so bad but the characters just weren't likeable, you tried to like them and the director really really tried you to like them as well even by throwing babies at you at some point but it didn't help.This movie never gets under your skin, you're never scared or feel any tension. And I even saw it in IMAX. The Hero never gets hurt, he's terminator. The Germans are made to look stupid by the English director. They can't shoot, they can't fly, they're just drinking and puking and whatever..Not gonna waste more lines this movie is just terrible. Save your money unless you like watching two hours of soldiers walking on mud and talking.
This is the kind of movie that can pick up momentum by the herd all buying into it without questioning the issues it has. View it with an open mind without thinking about the hype or awards nominations (or wins).This is what I did. And yes, the cinematography is definitely great, and the directing was impressive to choreograph everything in one take, but the thing that matters the most- the writing/story/character development- is not very good.Issues:1. Middle of WWI on the fields and the two main characters are as clean and tidy as a female pop singer about to take stage. There is no facial hair, no dirt, no masculinity to either of them. Very effeminate kind of characters.2. The mission is supposed to be important and imperative, so rather than send reinforcements and snipers to protect the two of them, they send these novices out on their own. It must not have been too important then according to that.3. Why not just save time since it is limited and fly a jet or plane to warn them?4. Since when do trained soldiers save an enemy pilot as if the enemy is a trustworthy ally? Whoops. A first grader would know to use caution when approaching or assisting an enemy. Draw your weapons first, and engage carefully. Don't try to save him like he's your brother.5. Was the prevailing actor the Predator? Why couldn't the enemy snipers hit him in wide open display when he repeatedly kept exposing himself in the open? Why did every bomb near-miss him? I really wanted an explanation for this and it would have helped me to believe it better. Like, is he the bionic man? Is he a superhero who can alter bullet and bomb trajectory with superpowers? If that was explained, it would have made it more believable.6. The Commander of a major WWI battle is so important that an unknown low-ranking soldier from another separate army can penetrate just by barging his way through hundreds of soldiers and the other captains give up his location like he is nothing.7. After a foot chase, just because he jumps in the river, the enemy gunfighter immediately gives up on him- not a shot fired in the water and no pursuit. Furthermore, the letter in his pocket is completely dry when he reaches land. Oh and for "continuity, one take sakes" he just happens to drift right up to the battalion he is looking for when he climbs ashore.8. The cinematography is very impressive, but like a few critics said, a) It feels like watching someone advance through stages of a video game and b) the director himself becomes the star of the movie as the viewers are more focused on "how they can get through the obstacles of the continuity" than they are "the story itself".9. How convenient and how manipulative. The story was lacking any heartstrings so they just had to add a young single mother with a baby who needs milk. As if the camerawork wasn't gimmicky enough, they put that cow in there and the farm to give the soldier milk for this scene's attempt at sentimentalism. Could they manipulate the audience anymore? I'm surprised they didn't kiss and have melodramatic music playing on top of that.Don't get caught up in the groupthink and echo chamber around this movie. Think for yourself.The emotional depth is lacking and when it is delivered, it feels unearned since there is no character development. Why am I supposed to care at all about these two video game characters who the writer/director has revealed nothing of substance about (at least until the end)?All in all, with that said, it's a good movie, but not a great one and certainly not deserving of any major awards. Frankly, I don't even think this should be nominated for anything except cinematography, and depending on the other contenders, maybe director. It is definitely no better than 7/10 movie.6/10
Ponderous and trite. Poorly directed, totally predictable. Hard to understand the buzz. I forced myself to watch the entire movie as I always do when I review. Recommend you skip this one. Totally panders to the PC anti-war Hollywood lefties ... don't get drawn in.
Camera work great, story so so, but what annoys me are the impropabilities:
where in the Somme region is this fast flowing river???the story sets of in april, why are the woods not barren of leaves?is there really a pristine landscape just a few miles from the front?In everything I've read about the great war (and I've read a lot) the constant shelling comes up, even in quiet sectors and on relatively quiet days. In this movie there is silence all around, except when the men go over the top...All in all: too many impropabilities to communicate a real feeling for the great war. Not individual/small platoon actions (which Spielberg did infinitely better in Saving Private Ryan) but massed attacks where characteristic of this war.
Unfortunately, I only skimmed the surface when reading the reviews, which led me to losing the price of a cinema ticket and two hours of my life. It's amazing how many fake reviews there are for this film. Lesson learned. Sort by "Hated it" next time....
This is a film for lovers of cinematography trickery and directorial hubris. The "one-shot" affectation is attention grabbing, but ultimately it's to the detriment of the film itself.The actual substance of the film and especially the script tends way more towards the melodramatic than the dramatic, and this is a crucial mistake in how weighty the film ends up feeling.These some decent acting, but unfortunately it's not from the leads. Specifically Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch shine in their small but quite memorable roles.Overall, for all its hype and acclaim so far, it's an empty exercise in cinematic trickery.
A { - m i c r o - } review .This film is Very Definitely NOT for the faint of heart... Nor ...is it the movie you want to watch if you're in the mood for that { - " TYPICAL " - } , Mindless Fast-paced Hollywood Blockbuster action thriller that we have ALL come to be so familiar with by now. Indeed, it most certainly would not be a stretch to say that Ace director Sam Mendes  , ( of James Bond acclaim, & so much more ), has certainly taken his time with - Several - of the shots & scenes on this one. They are gritty, raw, & laborious, { And Not Once }, do they ever feel rushed, or forced .It is no wonder then, that when you add to that mix some of the ( generally dark & brooding ) ...YET... sweeping, intense & atmospheric vistas of a " Brutally " war scarred Europe - Barren, Desolate, Stark, Forlorn & "Unphotoshopped" as they may be - and lavishly beautiful noir style { orange, gold & crimson rich } night shots that appear Entirely in the middle of the picture ; that truly Prolific Veteran Cinematographer Roger Deakins ( ...with a "WHOPPING" 13 Oscar nominations & 1 straight Oscar Win - for 'Blade Runner 2049' - to his name.. ) has just been nominated..... ( Again ). Not to mention the fact that Mendes himself just took the - Top Two - Prizes at this year's Golden Globes, And ..{ Lo & Behold }... has - Also - just been nominated for { Three } of the Top Honours at the 2020 Academy Awards, which, ( at - This - point ), are a mere 3 weeks in the offing .The score, written by the - Equally - accomplished Thomas Newman, is simply RIVETING.. with its moments of Crashing, Boisterous & " Sheer, Thunderous " Magnanimity ( as when a full-on armed conflagration is either very, very imminent or actually in progress ) delightfully interspersed with those very " Special, Delicately Haunting melodies that reach into someplace deep within the SOUL ...at just those wonderfully timed moments of "intense, irrepressible feeling". He too, unsurprisingly, was nominated for a Globe - { As Well } - as an Oscar .The Film Is EXQUISITE  In Its ' Frightfully - True - To - Life ' Depiction Of The Historically Collossal , War Ravaged { Bleak , Post Apocalyptic & Near " Phantasmagoric " } 1917's Western Front . A Vivacious , Exuberant , " Peace Worshippin' { } " . . . 13 Marks Out Of 10 .
Moving and inspiring, 1917 shows us the perfect combination of masterful acting, directing, cinemarography...
I found this movie to be lacking in a story line and 3 unrealistic scenes. The movie was very graphic showing the realism and brutality of what war is, except for three scenes that ruins the entire movie. The first when the British soldiers were saving the German pilot after he was shot down. Never have I seen in real life nor in a war movie based on real events a soldier giving aid to the enemy with the enemy's head in his lap giving him comfort. Nor have I ever seen a soldier putting his hand over an enemy's mouth telling him to be quiet then removing his hand after the enemy nodded he would. And then the unbelieveable scene when he ran out of that building away from the enemy leaving his weapon behind!! Because of those 3 scenes I found that movie to be disrespectful to those who serve/served in the Brittish Military. I served with them in the 60's and they do what they are trained to do and they do it well.
I've been griping for years for a WW1 movie that would show the real ugliness of that war, and here we are with "Saving Private Ryan" story. Get the message to the front before something bad happens. It so happens, the brother of one of the travelers is at the front lines about to face certain death.
While that is an engaging premise, the execution is...well, let's just say there is a reason why there is editing in movies. It's a slog because the travel time is essentially at real time.
Though I will give credit where credit is due, how do you make that remotely interesting. Well, predictably, it's to include townspeople. In the French, a couple of faceless enemy soldiers and running into other soldiers. It couldn't just be a walk. Great. Unfortunately, you start to feel the slowness of the flick. The concept is great, but we missed out on the true ugliness of war, BECAUSE, it most likely is THAT boring. So you see the exercise in it.
Granted...director Sam Mendes does something really great, which is not glorify war. You see a LOT of aftermath.
However, too many dumb things in this movie that anchor it down. The dead run through mortar and gunfire at the end is pure..um..."Dances With Wolves" or the fact that the Germans couldn't shoot straight to save their lives. Too many questions bog this down. Was there a better solution here? Probably not. This is THE best a WW1 movie could be. I guess. "Paths of Glory" is probably better.
All in all, it's not a movie recommended on a streaming platform. It is a theater movie, so go see it there.
The rest, well...I can't say it has a re-watchable quality. I went with a friend who said he would, but I doubt it. Sure a few people here probably wished they hadn't wasted their time in the first place.
1917 is simply a modern day masterpiece. I was blown away by every single frame of the film and to think they have managed to create the illusion of the whole movie being 1 single shot is absolutely phenomenal which is why every award given is completely well deserved! I'm not even a fan of war/historic film or TV but I can't stress enough how brilliant 1917 is and why all of you should see it in the next week while it's still out in cinema's/theatre's!
This is definitely the best movie of 2019. Should have won Oscars for best director, best soundtrack scoring and best picture. It's amongst the best movies ever made. A masterpiece that is great in every aspect I can think of. Watch it.
I'm not normally a fan of war films (in fact, there are only 3 war films that I really like) but after seeing this incredible World War I film 1917, there are now 4 war films that I like, this one being one of them!Not only is the movie shot and made to look like one continuous long shot, but the entire film takes place in real time (with the exception of when a character is knocked unconscious for a few hours), and it's an on the edge of your seat roller coaster ride from the time the title screen comes on at the beginning to the time when the credits roll. And instead of being an observer of the events like in most films, the way this one is filmed, you are actually amongst the filth of the trenches and dodging enemy bullets and grenades all along the way right with the two main characters.While many may watch this film and just see an ultra realistic, and sometimes horrific story of war, it's not a movie that glorifies it. The characters lean on each other, sometimes both literally and figuratively, and their friendship and brotherhood really shine through, and there are moments that will bring you to tears, both in sadness and in moments of happiness.I now see why this movie has gotten so much attention this awards season. It truly is a riveting, exciting, tense, and heart stopping thrill ride. Prepare to be wowed, and strap yourselves in for a wild ride!
A gripping war story based on the real life account of two World War I soldiers given orders to cross the battlefield into enemy territory to deliver a message to a commander unaware of the trap his 1600-man contingent is walking into.No cuts to other characters were used here. The focus was solely on the two soldiers and those they came into contact with along the way. Friend and foe alike. This gave a very real 'third person' feel to the experiences these men would have felt undertaking such an immensely important task.The scenes were captivating in the sense that the natural environments untouched by war were remarkably beautiful. Yet, their journey takes them through war-torn stretches of countryside which is anything but.On top of the experience of following the soldiers on their journey is the musical score. This set the mood for the peace and tranquility of the beautiful countryside, undertaking the burdens of responsibility and traversing the war-torn landscape littered by death and destruction.Not to mention that the characters were truly memorable. Just like the people we meet in real life. Each of their own uniqueness.
I don't usually like war films but I decided to watch this anyway, and boy I'm glad I did. The actors did an amazing job at bringing the characters to life, it made for a very believable and moving performance. The crew did a fantastic job with the set, props and costume, and it almost felt like I too was a soldier in the trenches. The story was beautifully told and the room was very somber by the end of the showing. 10/10 definitely recommend and would happily watch again.
Not many films can achieve locking the audience in within the first few minutes, but 1917 does and takes us on an unforgettable cinematic ride.The way the director successfully obtains the feel of an uncut film is beautiful. AWESOME MOVIE!!! It's more than a movie. It's an experience.
 WW1
The long-shot cinematography weakens its plot and scenes. However, it is also the cinematography that creates this brilliant immersive environment. It's like the audience is the 3rd person walking with them.
Beautiful cinematography, amazing sets, awesome acting, wonderful 2 hours of life.Not only was it visually beautiful, but my son and I were watching together and amazed at how their doesn't appear to be any takes/cuts in the filming. Not having hard scene transitions made it wonderfully engaging and really draws you in. For several scenes, we said "how did they even do that?!I loved everything about this movie. I wondered if a war film would ever top Saving Private Ryan (especially regarding the sets)...for me...this does.
This film is very nicely directed and is very interesting throughout. The impression of it being a single take really immerses the viewer in the events and this is further enhanced by strong performances from the cast. Cinematography,sound and editing is top-notch. Highly recommended.
Loved the long shots, the action and felt with the guys almost instant
An undeniably entertaining, technical masterpiece. The awe-inspiring (albeit gimmicky) cinematography elevates what would ordinarily be a fairly conventional war film, which once again re-emphases the futility of war, suggesting that the efforts of the two protagonists are ultimately in vain in the grand scheme of the war.
The emotional state I was left in by the end of this film was more the result of Deakins' cinematography than Mendes and Wilson-Cairns' script. The nature of the one shot style leaves you exhausted by the time the light come up as it feels almost like the campaign of a video game, where you are playing along.
1917 is an addictive and realistic movie, Mendes tecnique is perfect, acting is on point. Screenplay is a bit poor but not weak, story is touching and intense. One of the best movies of the year, and one of the most innovative
war movies ever.
1917 wow. What a film! From start to finish I was fully interested all the way through. Quite honestly one of the best war films I've seen for some time.
This movie is an excellent watch: brilliant set design, incredible acting all around as well as an amazing soundtrack that fit the events of the film perfectly. I also really liked the writing which delivered humorous banter and the sharing of funny stories amongst the young men sent to fight in a horrific war. I felt like it reinforced the idea that these soldiers are so close to each other that they're like children at school: constantly mocking one another and telling their own funny anecdotes. Another aspect of this film that was incredible was the atmosphere. Grimy and haunting environments (for instance, No Man's Land laden with corpses, rats and a miserable grey and cloudy sky) with eerie music was just a perfect combination.I'd say the only negative I have with this film is that it was hard to understand what some of the actors were saying at times. But other than that, I don't think I really have any other negative things to say about it. So to conclude, I absolutely recommend 1917, you'll be captivated as well as shocked (in a good way) it's a well deserved 9/10 from me ;).
Amazing work of directing, all events are pretty real, the story is always tense, but not just the war and the shoots, have humanity, and a different look about war, what turns all the movie unic.
After it won seven BAFTAs and garnered ten Academy Award nominations, I knew I had to see "1917." This World War 1 epic helmed by two-time "James Bond" director Sam Mendes, that's crafted to look like a single, unbroken two-hour-long shot (which has never been attempted with a film of this scale) sounded like something truly special. As I didn't want to miss out on seeing one of the most ambitious and colossal films to have been released over the last couple of years, I went to see "1917" with very high expectations... and I'm delighted to say that it surpassed every single one of them!"1917" isn't just an astounding technical achievement; it's also a haunting, soul shaking and earth-shattering motion picture that completely immersed me within its horrific and desolate world. I was utterly captivated from the peaceful opening few seconds to the poignant and emotional climax, I was invested in the characters and I was blown-away by the calibre of filmmaking mastery on display. "1917" is exceptional and I can't wait to explain why.Sir Sam Mendes directed "1917" brilliantly; he expertly balances the terror and brutality of war with the heartfelt human interactions that are at the core of the film, thus creating mournful moments alongside nail-biting set-pieces. It's astonishing because most of the first act of "1917" simply revolves around the two leads walking and talking before they encounter the next obstacle in their way, yet the film is never dull or slow.Having worked on films such as "The Shawshank Redemption", "Skyfall" and "Blade Runner 2049", Roger Deakins has proved himself to be one of the greatest cinematographers in film history, so it's no surprise that "1917" is one of the most visually awe-inspiring movies that I've ever seen.
The decision to film this movie as if it were shot in one take isn't just a cheap gimmick, it causes the audience to become like an invisible third character in the narrative as they follow the two young soldiers across No Man's Land, over isolated farmland and through a decimated town. This technique gives the film an unflinching and in-your-face attitude towards the horrors of war, because as the camera never cuts away, the viewer can't escape from the grisly carnage on screen. The one-take effect also adds to the urgency and tension of "1917", as we experience the events of the plot in (mostly) real-time and see each sequence from the character's perspective.But the visuals in "1917" don't just add the plot and characters, they're also breath-taking to look at. The sequence set within the burning town lit only by flares and flames is tremendous and the shot that's been prominent in the film's marketing of George MacKay's character sprinting through the charging soldiers is one of the most stunning and eye-widening images I've seen in a long time!The performances in "1917" are fantastic. Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay as Lance Corporal Blake and Lance Corporal Schofield are terrific, they had the arduous task of carrying most of the film alone, but their believable chemistry and superb performances made me root for their characters and kept me riveted.
The other members of the cast, including Benedict Cumberbatch, Andrew Scott, Colin Firth and Mark Strong, all do a fine job, but they feel more like cameos than properly fleshed out performances.An aspect of "1917" that I have to praise is Thomas Newman's phenomenal score. The music he composed for "Skyfall" is one of my favourite film scores of all time so I expected the soundtrack in "1917" to be great, which of course it was. The music heightens the mood of each scene, whether it be to enhance the aching sense of grief and despair felt by the characters or to increase the intensity of an action sequence. It's not necessarily a score I'd listen to in my everyday life, but there's no denying that Thomas Newman's Oscar nomination for "1917" was very well-deserved.And finally, without giving anything away, the ending of "1917" was the absolute best way to conclude the story. A lot of classic war films (like "The Bridge on the River Kwai" and "The Great Escape") leave a bad taste in my mouth because they don't fully commit to a profound and down-beat conclusion. In those movies, most of the key characters are killed off before the credits roll with a triumphant and jolly orchestral theme playing, which completely undercuts the gravity of the film's message and tone. In "1917" however, the final scene is not an explosive battle sequence, but a quiet and distressing conversation followed by a dialogue-free moment in which only sombre music is heard. The filmmakers let the weight of the sacrifices made and the futility of war wash over the audience, so that instead of walking out of the cinema thinking about a nice cup of tea and a snack, the harrowing ordeal that millions of men went through just over a century ago stays with you long after the movie ends.In conclusion, "1917" is one of the best films I've seen in months. It's an incredibly nerve-wracking experience with impeccable performances and some of the most staggeringly spectacular cinematography I've ever witnessed. It's a film that made me jump out of my seat, hold my breath and almost moved me to tears. "1917" thrilled me and left me completely shell-shocked; it's not just a movie, it's an event that every film-fan deserves to experience on the big screen. Drop whatever it is you're doing and see it right now!
Have you ever watched one of those ridiculous superhero movies where time after time after time the hero escapes death even though you know when the real world they would have surely been dead? That's what they have created with this movie. You have to suspend reality over and over again during the course of watching it if you're going to enjoy it. O
ther low reviews here detail the many unbelievable coincidences and cliches that occur. I won't detail them again but will just say that those reviews hit the nail on the head. When I go to see a serious movie, I don't want to be saying over and over again, "give me a break!"
The film is great but they call him lance corporal at the beginning then call him corporal when he gets thought now mans land even thought he still has a lance corporal badge.
This movie does not contain a good well-thought-out story, and yet, you're watching the movie excited for every second. I think you have to be a very good director to make such a movie The "all-in-one-shot" is something unique, and it gives the viewer a feeling of being in the film. It gives another perspective, I would say another dimension, to the viewer's experience.
The movie is impressive by its reality and immersion on the WWI period, the caos, the communication problems and the visuals of trenches are just some of the things that made me fell in this historical conflict. The continuity and the non felling of cuts could be revolucionary.
Before watching this movie I've heard plenty of people complaining that it was boring or that nothing actually happens. Nothing falser, the film is not only a good story of war, but also a lore of survival and a cinematography wonder. The idea of shooting the film in a continuous frame made the watchers feel more like they were right besides the soldiers on their journey through fire and death. Truth be told, there were couple of moments where the film seemed a little dragged, but in the end, for those who have a clue about WWI, that's how the entire war actually felt like: static and dragged. The way they managed to recreate the atmosphere of those times could have competed with a documentary in certain ways.
Therefore, 1917 is, in my opinion a story of survival, somehow similar to what Nolan attempted with Dunkirk, only better, grace to the brilliant idea of taking the watcher from his seat, right in the middle of WWI, through the continuous shot technique.
This is one of the best films I have ever seen. The score is impressive, and a full-length shot makes the scene so real as if I was going through the mercilessness of war. I was entirely drowned in the film and felt depressed and breathless in the whole process till it ended. An incredible experience tonight.
The picture and sound of this film is the best it has. It manages to put you in a situation it has not been that much exploited in the industry (WWI) where the battle was really in the trenches (actually this element has big importance in the storyline). The story is simple but effective. It has a down grade at the 3/4 of the film were it calms down just before the ending but nothing that would spoil the experience. Totally recommended.
Excellent movie, beautiful story telling, moving and excellent acting this is a 'must see' movie
The cinematography is absolutely amazing with the movie appearing to be one continuous shot while the action is well choreographed and realistic. The movie is never excessive and while it has its fair share of action, it takes its time to not rush the quiet and more human moments amidst the carnage. It is a gritty depiction of war and all its horrors, not for spectacle's sake but to tell the story of two men given a mission to deliver a message. It's a race against time to save 1,600 men from a surprise attack during the World War I.I found myself immersed in this and felt like I was with the two mains on the battlefield. A fantastic technical achievement in cinematography and one of the best movies of 2019.
From the opening scene until the final shot, this movie will keep you riveted to your seat and biting your nails. However, it is far from Gone With the Wind or The Wizard of Oz. Several pieces of the story that were unclear or unnecessary. The mother and child scene in the ruins doesn't add to the story line. If Schofield was shot by the sniper, how did he recover? If the Germans had amassed so much materiel in their new position in preparation for the trap and were able to bombard the 2nd infantry unit, why did they not continue the bombardment? The collapsing tunnel scene after the rat tripped the booby trap which followed behind the two soldiers, reminded me of the collapsing tunnel scenes in almost every Indiana Jones and 1950 California mining movie. While my wife thought that the movie reflected the WW I trench warfare well, I didn't feel the tension, smell the stench, or sense the futility as much as she did. The dead and rotting bodies scanned throughout the movie were all face down (with the exception of one soldier caught on the barbed wire) reflecting little cinematographic ingenuity, cruelty, or horror. The bodies in the river were mere stepping stones for Schofield as he climbed up the river bank rather than rotting corpses. In summary, a great story line conveyed by excellent acting but missing cinematographic gore and glory.
Very good movie. The long track camera work was definitely Oscar worthy.
This year's Best Picture Oscar nominee is a one shot (cuts hidden digitally) journey of a pair of soldiers during WWI trying to get a message to a unit about to engage in an attack which is actually a trap laying in wait. Sam Mendes (Spectre/American Beauty) has co-scripted an ambitious meditation on duty & sacrifice plunging the viewer into the horrors of trench warfare by solely focusing on these 2 comrade in arms (George Mackay, Dean Charles-Chapman) who take on this suicide mission (Chapman's brother is part of the unit they're heading to) when the odds aren't especially great. This visceral quest is felt in almost every frame as the dirt, blood & weirdly flowers engulf the screen making the experience a singular event. Yes one could argue that the sheer propensity of episodes (an enemy plane crash near one of the pair's stops, meeting up w/a French woman caring for an orphaned baby, a sniper attack which needs to be dealt with) may cause some audience members to decry 'come on!' but this may be the most intimate of epics put to screen so relish it while you can. Co-starring some Brit heavy hitters like Mark Strong, Colin Firth, Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch & Richard Madden.
I saw this movie in cinema and its one of the best movies I have seen this year. I love the cinematography and highly recommend everyone sees this movie.
I watched 1917 yesterday and I gotta admit I am delighted. Loved it!
I was super excited to see this film just from watching the trailer, hearing about it and seeing the good reviews. I hadn't anticipated any film like this for a while and well it was great, perhaps not quite as great as my too high expectations were at one point, but still very good.
Acting was mostly good, but I did find Andrew Scott's character to be a bit too cliche and the move was perhaps very slightly a bit too unbelievable at times, but not too much.
This movie was made to appear as being just a single shot and I feel like that it fit this movie very well. In the beginning it was slightly claustrophobic, but overall it was great seeing the whole journey and kind of being a part of it. The films looks amazing (cinematography is mostly fantastic) and during the final moments of the movie the white trench section just looked amazing. The running/attack scene during the final moments was very epic. I feel like I am going to have to give this movie another watch in the future to fully appreciate it, or maybe I will find more faults in it.
The score wasn't outstanding but good and the overall sound of the film was good, not deafening unlike in some other movies these days. This was a great movie.
1917 a film about a race against time,writing was clean and simple but conflicts was powerful,technical aspects are makes this film convincing and real,performance of lead characters was fantastic especially McKay writers,director Sam mended,dop roger deakins,music director,production designer all done their job very well a fine film given by Sam mended and crew
1917 and Dunkirk are the best world war films up-to-date.The visual effects,cinematography,direction,music are all a masterpiece.
The cinematography and realism of the actor's emotions make this one stunning war movie. Keeps you on your toes until the end!
Until today, my favorite war film of all was 'Das Boot'. Now it is my favorite war film about WW-2, because a few hours ago, I watched what, IMHO, is the best war film ever made. And also a masterpiece of modern filmmaking, by director Sam Mendes.On Oscar Sunday, I took my father, a Navy Viet Nam era Veteran, to see '1917'.
We both were blown away by this film. The actors, the cinematography, the way the camera never left the main characters... the realism of the sudden shocks, uncertainty, and horrors of war... not just WW-1, but of all wars, in all eras. "War is Hell" someone once said, and this film proved the point to me.If you like a gripping war or action type film, if you are a film student or budding filmmaker, love historical & period films, or just enjoy a great story... there is all of that and more in '1917'.
My girlfriend found it a very tense and exciting movie while she had to keep me awake.
Not my cup of tea, as a Belgian.
Lots of cinema but not an nerve-wracking storyline.
Very good. So good that I have to keep saying it's good. Like, if you haven't watched it, please do. It's good, very good.
Surprisingly there's a lot of fake 9 and 10's, but even worse there are the idiots who gave a film of this production value and caliber 1 and 2's.I will say, I've rated over 1000 films and reviewed 800+, and the directing and cinematography were both perfection in 1917. The 1-take style was incredible. The first time I saw something similar was Birdman, but I hated it in such small quarters as it made me nauseous and dizzy, and there really was no point to do that. But in a film like this that is outdoors with such long detailed sets, it was perfection. It makes you wonder if it's even possible to pull off, yet here it is. The acting was outstanding and helped with the tension and suspense even though the camera never left its targets. The score was also perfect. Although the pacing was good, the story only had a few "wow" moments, thus making the 119 min run time feel much longer. I would've have liked to see less trenches - albeit magnificently put together, and more of anything else. Nevertheless, the sets were spectacular. I'd normally give a story like this a 6 or 7, but 1 stars added for the great sets, and the unique and captivating directing and cinematography, thus a well deserved and honest 8/10 from me.
This movie is great, but not Oscar movie! Yes, it's a Great War movie, but it is too overrated!!
This is a Perfect Movie. Shot in real time in what seems to be one long continuous take, perfectly orchestrated action, consummately choreographed and shot. It's got Everything; sets, costumes, acting, score, cinematography, story (not necessarily in that order). And it'll set a standard for years to come.
Btw, I get the comparison to Saving Private Ryan, which has perhaps the best invasion scene ever. But on the whole and in many ways 1917 surpasses SPR. It's a Monumental Masterpiece; practically incomparable.
The acting from the main character George MacKay (William Schofield) was brilliant and the way this film was shot was fantastic, but overall I was bored and waiting for the end. To deliver a message from one location to another avoiding obstacles and being shot. That sums it up for me.I can appreciate the horrors of war and that part makes it a worthwhile watch in the hope we could learn from it. The scenery, costumes and amount of extras needed are unimaginable. Firth and Cumberbatch only in it for a few sentences and that's it!!Wouldn't watch it again but glad I have seen it. Not exactly entertaining for me though but I can tick it off this years list.
First, I really like war movies like Saving private Ryan, Apocalypsis Now or The thin Red Line. Second, 1917 is a pretty good film with an excellent cinematography. Third, the camera work and the only few CGI effects are amazing too. But, on the other hand, the script here is not quite original and the storyline is quite weak. To add, some scenes looks like unrealistic or unbelievable.
So, overall a pretty good war film but not a masterpiece like Saving Private Ryan. Enjoy.
The first 5 minutes and the last 5 minutes is all you need to understand the purpose of the movie, the remaining 1:50 minutes is lagniappe
I congratulate everybody that was involved in the production of this film because they gave us a masterful work of art.It's astonishing that they made this film with such realism and emotion, and it would absolutely wouldn't be the same without the long shots and brilliant cinematography.1917 has to be the best film of the year and I think this film along with Birdman have inspired a new genre of film. I hope more directors are encouraged by this film because I'm out of words on how great of an impact this has left on me!
Following the trend to give movies 10 on 10 if one enjoyed it, this film gets a simple 1 on10.For a proper war film, watch Gallipoli, easily more authentic than this expensive propaganda.
I was expecting much more. I have seen much better movies about the war and sacrifice etc. That one was quite slow, even boring in places. To be honest I have no idea why all those nominations and awards.....
I do appreciate the effort and the realistic side of showing how it was during a war.... So my rating is not lower than 7 but will not watch it again. Sorry, maybe I didn't get it.....
This is definetly a decent war movie and stands out with it's one continuous shot approach. But this gimmick also works against the movie in some parts."1917" feels very real and has great sets, action and its continuous shot style is very well done. Even if it also means it drags a bit in places and the story (which only follows a couple of characters) can only go so far and in one direction.
I love war movies, the classics Saving Private Ryan and We Were Soldiers and newer films like Hacksaw Ridge. With Sam Mendes(Skyfall) directing, an interesting shooting style and a compelling trailer I was hyped up but left the cinema a little unsatisfied.
The story centres around two young soldiers who are given the task of delivering a message to a battalion ordering them to call off an attack, as to avoid a trap by enemy troops and a subsequent massacre.
The way this Is filmed is through one continuous camera shot, of course there are tricks to hide takes but it is an impressive feat. Not only for the actors to give a physical performance climbing through bunkers and avoiding enemy fire but to remember their lines and for the crew to keep this up so smoothly, I give this movie massive credit for this.
The first act of this film is by far the high point for me, we go through the trenches, into a bunker to collect orders then across to the end of the line and through no mans land eventually into a German bunker. It took my breath away how smoothly the camera navigated through this uneven terrain, all the while keeping the shot steady and framed. The tension was there as you can imagine crossing into enemy territory and I was enjoying the film.
However, problems arises when you don't cut from the main characters. When they have to walk to a barn for example we get the entire shot of them walking to the barn. I understand your probably thinking this is supposed to emulate their lives and what their experiencing, I understand but as a film with not much dialogue or charisma from the leads, not any Tarantino style conversations or music playing it drags the movie out.
Not only does the film have a lot of filler, the main characters don't have the acting or charm to carry the weight of this film. In a movie like The Revenant, it worked because it was filmed stylishly and Leo is a phenomenal actor.
Maybe it was just me but I just wasn't rooting for the heroes of this film, I don't think they go through enough or have any backstory explored to give them depth and they don't g through any real character arcs.
While I'm not complaining about the lack of action, it is missing here for a war movie. With this camera style there was the option to get something really special with some sequences but it never comes.
It's not to say the film is lacking any tension or suspense. It comes every now and then, but it's was not enough to keep me invested. I think if you have seen your fair share of the genre this doesn't bring anything new, it's nothing you won't have seen before.
To summarise I don't think 1917 is a bad movie, it's really not. Technically it's superb and the set up could of made this special. However I think the style chosen for this was a double edged sword, it gives great tension at times but drags the film down majorly at others. Combine this with an underwhelming performance from the lead actors just takes the film out of becoming a classic and drops it into the slightly above average category.
I was fooled into watching this film expecting it to be something special by the "Golden Globe" award for Best Drama. In fact, I was so fooled that by the end of it, for a second I was almost convinced it was 'that' good since the final scene was touching. I ignored and overlooked many, many flaws throughout the runtime to give it a fair chance like I do with most movies that are decent. This sometimes includes pretending I didn't pick up on a flaw, an error, a bad performance, or an implausibility.However, after I slept on it and reflected on these things, I had to change my mind, and I just could not ignore the glaring flaws, which were somewhat juvenile and made it feel like the movie was written by a 12-year old.There are numerous scenes in this movie (and they are the ones that are supposed to be the 'most dramatic' and 'intense') that are actually implausible to the point that they can be ridiculed and mocked at how unrealistic they are. In fact, you can actually laugh at them, despite the movie taking these scenes so seriously. It tries to sell itself or pawn itself off as some realistic, gritty take on WWI (and it "almost" succeeds, and it does hit the mark at scarce moments), but you can't help but notice that simultaneously it also feels like some kind of unrealistic action movie with maybe Schwarzenegger as its lead since the main actor has laughable plot armor on him.Does it suffice for a new war movie for 2019? Sure, if you want to see a new war movie, then this will give you that genre. And yes, the cinematography is undeniably well-done and at times a marvel to look at. But if you actually stand this movie up against the true great war movies, it really is nothing special. It had a couple of good scenes and traits, but overall it's just not that good.Forget about SPRyan comparisons. It's not even close to that. But for a WWI movie, to even compare it to Atonement in terms of quality would be stretching it; it doesn't have any depth like that does.4/10
This movie seems like it was shot with a great camera and no talent. Close up shots 75% of the movie, poor acting, horrible script writing (most doesn't even relate or make sense), way too many panning scenes done poorly. To be honest I walked out towards what I believe to be the ending of the movie. I kept hoping for better but it's a flop IMO. Not sure how this made it to main screen. Tho I believe it was the title and history content it was supposed to have. No action all. Bet they didn't spend any money on the "set". Lol needles to see I was disappointed with this movie. Save your money till it's free on Netflix.
Sam Mendes in 1917 gives us his variation on the old adage, "if you think you're going through hell, keep going," and for all of the given technical prowess - and a 70 year old Roger Deakins showing with a big grin that he's still got one of the most massive cinematography you-know-whats in the industry - I didn't feel much while watching this, except the occasional "oof" or "ugh" (usually when seeing some of the first dead bodies and rats). It's a conceptual piece that means to be a major statement on the horrors of war, and it only reminds me that the films about war that have stayed with me more than any are the ones that provide visceral and complicated characters FIRST, craft wizardry SECOND (or at least concurrently).I thought at some point I might compare it to how a war-like video game works (I dont have a lot of experience playing these sorts of first-person shooters, Im just going by assumption), and to Mendes's credit he tries to slow things down here and there so it isnt all thrill-a-minute action and spectacle. But it does carry that sense of the mission these two are on and the sort of "stuff" that happens is more interesting than getting to know them (and when we briefly do, it's unremarkable, maybe a sign of why Mendes doesn't usually write his own films).It's a somewhat precarious position to be in as one in the audience, since objectively I know what everyone on the crew did to make this come off, from the art direction to the props to how goddamn realistically-based the camera is (or I should say like 80% of the time), yet by the end it means to lay an emotional punch to the gullet, and I just didn't connect.Maybe some will, or maybe some will be even more bothered by what is clearly, as far as elevator pitches go, an attempt to one-up Kubrick with Paths of Glory (I van almost hear Mendes in his head as he shoots this going, "hah, take that and your trench tracking shots!") via the near-one take approach of Rope. But, again, those films had scripts that were engaging completely on the scale of what horrors human beings do to one another on an individual scale, with the system as a cudgel, not to mention enormously moving performances (same with another film that did this far better, Birdnlman, for its theatricality). This is kind of a... Forced-Poetic idea of a tragic story, impeccably made but hollow at its heart.For all the impressive filmmaking brio on display, I unfortunately have a sinking feeling this may win best director and best picture at the Oscars not for exactly being a "best" but for being the "most" film (or trying to be). And as for it being an anxiety-filled experience... Folks, c'mon, Uncut Gems is in a theater right next door to this one at your local cineplex .
Another ideologically contaminated film by Cultural Marxism. Waaay too many Africans, and a Sikh? In Europe? There were virtually 0 africans and indians fighting in Europe, but hey, we got to meet the diversity and inclusion quotas, rewrite history, and promote multiculturalism.-lovely cinematography, the long takes were sometimes overdone
-great depiction of carnage and horror of war
-unbelievable story and scenes
-plane crashing into a barn in the middle of a field?
-saving an enemy without hesitation
-a cow and a bucket of fresh milk, how convenient
-the baby needs milk, how convenient
-everyone seems to be bilingual
-guy is running in a straight line and no one is able to shoot him in the back
-leaving your weapon, because during a war in enemy territory you don't need one
-no one seems to mind a stranger coming from woods and joining a Kumbaya momentThe scene where the two guys try to escape the tunnel, is missing a giant ball rolling behind them and Indiana Jones music.Hero / Damage Bonus+
-cut with barb wire
-survived explosion (close proximity)
-buried in rubble (under huge rocks)
-temporarily blinded
-survived a plane crash
-shot
-fell several stairs and hit the head
-slammed the body against rocks in a river
-survived freezing cold river water in springtime (April 6, 1917)
-survived more explosions
Soooo many things in this movie do not make sense, periods of time just disappear, on a tight timeline mission to save over 1000 soldiers, but entering into hazardous situations that could have.been bypassed time and again. What the he&% is with the singing in the woods!?! River rapids that suddenly appear, a waterfall, and then calm water again? Really bad writing! Wasted 2 hours of life that I won't be getting back! Cinematography was good tho.
I am not sure why I sat through the entire film. Thank goodness it was half-price Tuesday for this Senior. Ususally if a director wants us to "care" about a character, we get to know them as we did Richard Jewell. Not in this case. Two fellows walk from France to Germany in a trench and do we even have a vested interest in whether they live or die? The first line of barbed wire, decaying horses, and men caught dead in barbed wire was reminiscent of the cold reality of "They Shall Not Grow Old" (the best WW1 film of late). Following scenes were as if we were watching a surreal dream sequence to nowhere. Even when the front-line commander got the message, his oh, ok reply made all that wait pointless. Golden Globes can take a hike and leave that parade.
1917 is Sam Mendes second foray into the war genre. Ah yes, you forgot about Jarhead didn't you... After 2005's Jarhead, which I myself loved, 1917 is a hugely ambitious step up for Mendes. He has to be commended for using this 'one shot' technique for what seems to be it's perfect use.
.
Believe the hype. 1917 is this years Saving Private Ryan, Hacksaw Ridge, Dunkirk. It's 100% fitting that it's in the conversation surrounding these war greats.The use of the one shot technique for this type of film is genius, as it completely immerses you in the action with little reprieve. Seemingly menial moments like following these two young men walking through the trenches is enthralling & captivating. This is also superbly elevated by the pitch perfect score that is coursing through the veins of the film. Honestly, the score is impeccable, goosebumps a plenty... and the Oscar for best score goes to Thomas Newman, 1917. Then there's Roger Deakins cinematography. Need I say more. It's stunning from start to finish, with some scenes very reminiscent of 2049.
.
Let's get some minor flaws out of the way. Dean-Charles Chapman (Tommen from GOT) was the wrong casting for this one. A) he's a little too chubby for this role. It's even eluded to at the start there is no food around, yet Blake looks very well fed. Chapman also doesn't nail some of the important scenes, which takes some of the emotional punch away from them. The only other thing to mention might be the fact the Germans can't seem to aim to save their lives. It did start to feel a little hard to believe at times.
.
George MacKay does a wonderful job as the lead. He hits all the right notes of emotion and intensity. There's also a bunch of great cameo appearances spread throughout the film, including Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch, and Andrew Scott in a great little scene where a few smiles are to be had.
.
1917 is a movie that demands to be seen on the big screen, the biggest screen. It's definitely one of the best films of the year, and an amazing effort in cinema.
I see all the "OMG OMG 10 10" reviews and I feel most of those people got caught up in the "one shot" aspect of the film, and not the film itself.Yes, the long cuts (because YES there are cuts...when the camera passes by a background object and when it cuts to black) are very awesome ...at first, but by the time the soldier gets a ride with another group of soldiers, all I kept thinking is "ok...we could use with a few time jumps here..." and by the time he ends up in the water, I was squirming with a desire for the fast forward button. It's like watching a REALLY awesome 3-D movie...you love it, but sometimes you just wish more was done for the script and less for the stunning shots. I hesitate to use the word "tiresome" but yes...So my issue ...the options for modern films on WWI are very far and few between that aren't low low budget ...(lost battalion is AMAZING and a better film imo) and we don't really seem to get any glimpses of the horror that that war truly was (disease/pain/the water/cold/gas etc etc) and I had hoped this film would highlight some of that...but instead they went with a visual treat, which is fine...just not what I'd hoped for. They TRY to show you trench life, and life in the mud, but you never at any time really feel "what a nightmare" like Full Metal Jacket/Saving Pvt Ryan, etc etc. which again is fine. It's still a well made film, with many visually awesome shots, and some very slow moments as well. The problem is I don't believe any of these slow moments were intended to feel slow and boring.As long as you keep one thing in mind you'll be alright. This is NOT an action movie, I'd dare say it's not even a "war" movie...it's about a movie set during a war is all. This film should've been marketed as a drama imo. And no I don't believe you have to show heads blown off or buckets of blood to make a good war film. "Final Journey" is a GREAT example of a WWI film with maybe 2% of this films budget that shows the hell of that war without gore.Still a good film, but I don't believe this one will one day take its place among the all time Great War films..
It's a "good" movie, but not a great one. It is not even a "technical masterpiece" like some are trying to claim, and it is about as far from a "masterpiece" as a movie can possibly be as a whole.Anyone calling this movie a masterpiece or one of the best war movies ever or any other malarkey like that is either flat out lying or they are teenagers or little kids who know nothing about the realities of war. The movie may appeal to them because it is shot like a "video game", which younger people are into.The only really truly "great" feature of this movie is the cinematography, and to be quite honest, the best camera work is seen in the first 20-30 minutes of the movie. Beyond that, even the outstanding camerawork begins to actually fall apart as the protagonist literally begins to "run in circles" around a city just so they can continue continuity on the one-take filming.It's a "good" movie, but do not go in thinking this is a masterpiece or anything great.Imo, it is one of the most overrated movies, if not THE most overrated and overhyped movie of the last five years. It's at least in the top 3-5 most overrated and overhyped. The camerawork/filming style though is definitely worth a watch.
I saw the trailer to this movie I thought it was an interesting set up but, I thought I was going to play like every other war movie. The beginning of the movie It Takes a turn that surprise me and then I kind of play like Saving Private Ryan in a way. Only in a couple ways though everything else was kind of fresh and original.
Sam Mendes has made a technically bravura film which looks like one long take. Something he experimented with at the beginning of his James Bond movie, Spectre.Made by Dreamworks, the company's first shot for the Best Picture Oscar was Saving Private Ryan in 1998.The story is about two soldiers in World War One. Their mission is to make their way across no man's land, the abandoned German lines and reach the advancing Allied troops. They have to deliver a message ordering them not to attack as they are walking into a trap set by the Germans who want to give the impression that they are retreating.One of the soldiers has good reason to take this perilous mission. His brother is part of the Allied group and is in danger. Therefore the story owes a nod to Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan.Impressively photographed by Roger Deakins, it sets out to show the dirty horrors of trench warfare. The story though is slight and gets lost with the style of filmmaking that Mendes has employed.I thought it lacked the verve of Peter Weir's Gallipoli, a film which I kept thinking off when I watched 1917. This might be the reason that although it went into the Oscars as a frontrunner, it lost out on the main prizes.
Movies are a condensed version of real life; this movie is real life itself. As such it is mostly mundane and boring. It is like watching a live-stream of somebody as he or she journeys through the streets of New York in order deliver some bagels to grandma. Although the camera work and filming are amazing! Top notch! If you however, find the characters rather lacking in depth or you're unable to connect with them emotionally or intellectually, you click away, you click "cat videos" instead. This is my main gripe with 1917, although the filming is splendid, the characterization is severely lacking, the character arch is nonexistent. The characters don't change; they were the same at the beginning of the movie till the end. This is a true plot driven story instead of a character driven story. And the plotting by the way is quite slow with a few plot holes I might add, how can it be anything else but slow? The story is lacking in depth and breath. It's basically a get from A to B video game type story; as such it is very predictable. There is only so much you can do with this type of filming, and once the technical oddity or marvel of one long continuous shot (although there were a few cuts) wears off you realize the emperor has no clothes, no characterization, and a very simple story arch. This is a 10 minute movie or 2 hour long documentary/live-stream. This reminds me of a movie with all the great special effects of light sabers, star destroyers, and Jar Jar Binks but with muted and flat characters. The sugar quickly wears off and you're left wanting something more substantive.
There was a lot of action. Some violence. An arc to a stated goal. But, it didn't make you pull for the protagonist. There was a brother that was in danger, but you never had a reason to want him to live. Very little backstory to describe him as worth saving. No special ability of the 2 protagonists to do an impossible job, other than it was one's brother. An interlude with a woman that was supposed to reflect a version or reference to home life, but didn't do it well and was never revisited save an ambiguous picture with a note (sister, wife, girlfriend...who knows?). In short, the character development was sophomoric. The story was as boring as it could be for an interesting premise. The cinematography and realism made the movie watchable. But, at no time during the movie did I think, "Wow, this is a great movie." I went to see Spies in Disguise with my son 2 days afterward and thought that that was a much better movie. Better on all fronts.
I was expecting the next Saving Private Ryan. The story is about a soldier bringing a message across desolate war torn landscape. There were only about 4 Germans in the movie and no combat scenes. If I would I would have fast forwarded through a lot of it. Don't listen to the hype.
It is beautiful and a technical achievement. The story is ridiculous and I am pretty sure the Germans are Stormtroopers, because they can't hit anything numerous times in the movie. There are so many things that are utterly ridiculous that these soldiers do. Maybe WWI soldiers were that poorly trained, both German and British.
Just back from watching this film, if this is line for best picture, I cannot see me being back at the cinema anytime soon, absolute tripe from start to finish.
The best movie of 2019 NO the worst. Absolute rubbish. Compare it to the reality of war, the emotion and pointlessness of war, the self sacrifice and cost, the sadness and the mixed happy ending with Saving Private Ryan. This was absolutely a pointless movie combined with one friend getting shot and the other doing a lame version, a ridiculous bullet dodging of John Wick combined with Lassie comes Home. This was boring, uneventful, non technical, lame lame lame. Advertised as the best. A money maker which leaves you feeling conned out of 20 bucks and 2 hours of my life.
1917 is definitely a decent movie, and yes, there is no denying that the ambitious "one-take" filming method was very impressive and certainly an achievement, but the writing was paper-thin at times- not as much as Roma was (not that bad), but it had some weaknesses.Before watching it I glanced through a few reviews, and one in particular that stood out as ambivalent is the one I recalled, as I agreed with the reviewer's opinion that 1917 has every war movie clich you could think of.Literally every clich is in here as its main scenes, but there is something else I found even more bothersome than that, which is that a few of the scenes are actually dumb. For example, the two messengers witness a dog fight, and they actually identify their allies as winning, but a few moments later the plane they are pursuing is shot down and lands nearby where they are. Rather than play it cautiously, they immediately rush to assist the enemy out of the plane to try to save him. This directly leads to one of them being killed when the pilot stabs the one of them. I mean, what kind of solider in a major war would naively try to save an enemy without their weapons drawn and cautiously? This was very problematic to me.Another issue that I had once again pertained to suspension of disbelief, or implausibility in that the surviving messenger is shot at constantly throughout his journey with bullets just missing his head on numerous occasion. I mean, this guy has plot armour on him that is thicker than season 8 of Game of Thrones, particularly the episode, "The Long Night". Everyone around him is constantly getting blasted by bombs and bullets, yet this guy is just luckily and randomly getting missed. For one scene, I would be like, okay, but this goes on in every battle scene all the way through to the end. I'm not an expert on WWI, but at what point does the viewer have to say, "There's no way this is how it was- that a guy can just expose himself constantly to gunfire, bombs, and hellfire, and not get a scratch on him?"Don't get me wrong. There is no denying that this was a good movie, but I couldn't help but feel those three main criticisms: the clichs, the plot armour/suspension of disbelief, and the thin writing. And pertaining to the thin writing, I understand that they needed to give the actors lines, of course, but every single dialogue felt like they had to put "that" kind of scene in to make it feel like a war movie, and that's not to say it was bad, but just cliched.Speaking of the writing, if you are a person who mostly enjoys great, original dialogue and style, then you will probably notice this too. However, you will also be unable to deny how impressive the "one-take" filming method is. Another thing to mention is that due to the thin writing, it gave off a very nihilistic vibe a lot of the time. I questioned often if there was any deeper meaning to anything being shown. The reason why is because it seemed like they were going for some depth, but the climaxes were not reaching any moral or lesson. Again, when the pilot was being saved, I thought, 'okay, he's showing that in war helping your enemy is noble?"...but then it results in a nonsensical death, and yet still it wasn't trying to say not to trust your enemies in war, either; it was just a random event brought about by being stupid by underestimating the pilot in an unprofessional soldier way for a big war.Finally, I have one other big issue with this. Toward the end, this stranger basically crashes the battalion's gathering, and he begins asking where the Commander is, okay. Not one single soldier asks him for identification to confirm he isn't some rabid dog or assassin. They easily trust him and give up the location of their head Commander. But that isn't all- that is just the very back group he first meets. As he proceeds to chase after the Commander, trained soldiers allow this maniac to just knock them over one by one without being suspicious of him or questioning what his problem is as he advanced through. But it doesn't even end there; when he arrives at the bunker area, or front line, he continues to ask where the commander is, and the other captains continue to immediately comply with his request, giving up the location of their Commander to a stranger like it is no big deal. Seriously? What if he was an assassin? Nobody asks for his identification or why he wants the Commander's location.....Oh, that is until he finally arrives outside his door. It is finally THEN that they make a big deal about what kind of a threat he can be. I had big problems with how this scene was set up. We're supposed to believe the Commander of the entire mission is supposed to be that simple and easy to get to when being pursued by an outside low ranking soldier?On a plus note, I liked the very end and thought most of the movie sufficed as entertaining and a decent watch. However, I would NOT qualify this as a Best Picture favorite at the Academy Awards due to said issues. It had beautiful filming and beautiful shots, but the writing came up cliched and short of what it should require.-1 (Little character development/thin writing)+9 (Cinematography/One-Take choreography success) -1 (Cliches/Suspension of Disbelief/Plot Armor)= 77/10
Best movie in years. Thoughtful, well acted, and incredibly well filmed. Should win an Oscar.
How amazing it was from the first scene to the end( to me)! There're lots of world war movies out there and many are perfect though, but this one to me and for sure many others till now; was one of the best among all, this kind of non-stop narration that rarely the scenes seem to be changed like it doesn't change at all and the process goes through the end from only one view( I don't know if there's an specific word for this kind or not) makes it a perfect movie that forces you to sit back and follow the story and feel like you're the third person of the scene as a soul beside them and feel everything they do! Maybe others would say: "oh! Come on, this is not all that!" But it really is for me and the fans maybe. It could feel even better if more action scenes would come across, for sure.
So, Everything was good; it has some faults of course, in some scenes like when Blake was dying and was talking to Schofield and then two soldiers came through, and at the road, vehicles and soldiers were struggling with the trunk, I asked myself how fast it could happen and none of them could hear the voices, I mean that was really fast! It could take longer for all those vehicles to arrive there and spread over that land, so that they wouldn't seem to be acting obviously after the director allows them when the camera came through the road!!
But anyway, totally it's one of the best.
I loved it!
Hands down, a flawless masterpiece that became an instant classic on release day. Do yourself a favor and watch this on the big screen.
The movie is shot by a genius and that is that. All technical stuff are really really great from the cinematography to the single shot, everything is beautifully done.
The good stuff end here though. The plot is know to the viewer before the film starts and that didn't bother me. What did bother me were all the "WTF" moments(and there are many, like too many) and the fact that the two main characters are utterly idiots, plain idiots. It's really clear that the script writers didn't give a sh** about the characters, there's no evolution, there's no deep characterization, nothig. It's a real shame, because it could have been a really great movie. It's just ok, no greatness there. I don't get the hype, really can't.
I had heard so many great things about this I couldn't wait to see it. By the end I was wondering what all the fuss was about.It was going well up until Blake gets killed, the two soldiers going through no mans land, the German trenches and bunkers was compelling. But then we're supposed to believe the German pilot who had crash landed his plane on fire and was lying on the ground had overcome Blake and stabbed him. Come on.Then out of nowhere a convoy of British troops turn up and give Schofield a lift, they drop him off and he starts crossing the bridge and almost immediately he comes under fire from a German sniper, are we supposed to believe the convoy just left him fend for himself? Anyway German sniper manages to miss his target with every shot but our man Schofield manges to shoot him with his third or fourth hanging from the bridge.When he goes to check to see if the German is dead he gets shot or does he, all we see is him waking up in a pool of blood but no obvious wound. He's then chased by another soldier , he escapes through a door which must have been invisible to the German as he just runs past. Here he finds a French woman and a baby who has somehow managed to avoid capture by the Germans, luckily our hero had found some milk earlier.After he leaves the woman and baby fend for themselves, he comes across two soldiers, he kills one but for some bizarre reason not the other, he drops his knife pushes him away and runs.If it wasnt for the cinematography and the opening half hour I would have given it a 4, poor characters, plot holes and bland story.
This movie is average and cannot be mentioned alongside great movies such as Saving Private Rayan. Good performance from George MacKay!
Overpraised like Dunkirk. All the time you just hear (or read) that the movie was made with an one shot approach/method but this is just a technical question and makes no good movie itself.
Compared to Paths of Glory (1957) or All Quiet on the Western Front (1930) this is not much better (regarding being realistic) like Emmerich's Midway or Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor, but those at least got some fine and epic action scenes.
All in all: a big Hollywood production with every possible war cliche you can conjure up. Also the sounddesign (drones, ambient noises and melodies) does not fit into the movie at all - and where is the sound of heavy artillery that you can hear for many miles!? To sum it up: no masterpiece, but mildly entertaining.
I watched this in the comfort of my bed (award consideration copy), its a good movie with great shots. However, when compared to saving private Ryan or black hawk down, it doesn't stand well. Why? There aren't enough in depth battle scenes to be captivated with. The friendship of the two doesn't have enough depth or poignancy to really make you care. It's almost as though the film is a private was created by one person's recollection of a father's tale.
This is a 5 movie because it missed an opportunity to be bigger and better than dunkirk but gets an extra star for not being more sc superhero drab...
It's worth the watch, but wait until you too can do it in the comfort of your own home.
For better or worse, 1917 is a film in which seemingly all the creative energy was focused on its technical elements. The extremely long takes are impressive, the fluid shot compositions arresting, the sets beautifully realized and convincing. But once that initial sense of awe inevitably wanes, it becomes naggingly clear that the film has nothing to offer beyond its visual splendor. It plays like a theme park ride, stringing together setpieces that offer superficial thrills but ultimately fail to engage on any emotional or intellectual level. It appears to be going for a hyperrealistic, you-are-there experience but never comes close to capturing any real sense of chaos or pandemonium. Everything feels too tightly-controlled and manicured to translate as the real thing, especially with the conspicuous direction constantly drawing attention to itself. It doesn't help either that the film seems to have an inflated sense of self-importance, as if all the theatrics are in service to some grand commentary on humanity, friendship, life, and death. In reality, it's a popcorn film that fancies itself a fine work of art, ultimately lacking in any real thematic or emotional depth. That isn't necessarily a bad thing; if you're primarily looking for a visual spectacle you're likely to be satisfied. If that's the case, I'd even recommend it. I fully applaud the effort and skill it took to make, though wish I could say it was in service to something more than killing two hours nursing your calorie-dense snack of choice.Solid 2.5/5
The film follows a standard four-act narrative structure. Each act has only one shot, which, as you can imagine, is an extremely long take. The cinematographers and production designers must have done some impossible work.Under this immersive and atmospheric setup, you see what the protagonists saw, hear what the protagonists heard, and feel what the protagonists felt. This is one of the most realistic, intense and hard-hitting thrillers I've ever seen. That's why I don't recommend this movie. You will be traumatized by the film, even long after you finish watching it.
The first 20 minutes were OK but then the wandering about in no-mans land whilst stood up and chatting to each other started. Then a rat set off a trip wire bomb in a trench - bizarrely (with no serious consequences though). What genius thought of that? Then soon we have a German pilot crashing right into the two expositional idiots that we are following whilst they LARP around having conversations in enemy territory after firing a flare to their fellows during daylight. Of course they have to drag the German pilot out of his plane to save him and to the surprise of absolutely no-one he stabs one of them within about 30 seconds. Good for you if you like this kind of garbage but I'm not a fan. This is amateur drama students trying to play at being in the Great War but without any respect to the reality. Awful and disrespectful.
Great cinematography - you feel like you're there in a sense, enough to keep you engaged throughout with one scene only that drags, odd scene a tad far fetched, does show some horrors of war, no real storyline or character background.
Yes a fantastic piece of technical film making but actually not very involving. Quite slow at times and no real stand out moments. Were was movie set? France? Belgium? Didn't really explain. Will win Oscars but does not compare to Sp Ryan' Dunkirk or Hacksaw ridge. That said it is something to deffo see just lower expectations.
How this has got such high ratings I do not know
It's tedious and cliched
The Germans are the worst shots I've seen since the A team and the Brits are too frightfully nice to kill them
It's like a mediocre Netflix movie
The one take thing is a pure gimmick that adds absolutely nothing dramatically
Save yourself some time and money and just watch the last episode of Blackadder Goes Forth instead
The first ten minutes or so is fantastic, the one shot thing works and suits that part of the film. But for the rest of the film all it does is get in the way. It prevents you from getting into the film and you can almost see the actors and extras have been waiting for the camera to come to them so they can do their bit. The story is flimsy and empty. Some of the sets, especially the bombed out buildings at night, are so obviously sets this even more takes you out of the film. Aside from the opening, I was aware every minute that I was watching a movie. The acting is fine though under the circumstances, the action sequences are limp and unbelievable as are many of the events that happen along the way - these mostly feel like fillers to pad the film out and many are very heavy handed visual bits that simply do not come off.
It isn't a bad film by any means, but it isnt the masterpiece it is being made out to be and there are many better war films out there that do not sacrifice so much substance for style. Even the music in many places is inappropiate and intrusive. By all means go see it, but remember you don't have to think it is the bees knees just because the critics say it is.
I'm so glad I got to see this in theaters.I love how the movie is immersive, and it uses the "one shot" thing to be even more immersive, you feel like you are in the middle of WWI, alongside the two main characters. That's my favorite aspect of it. And isn't being immersive what a movie's goal is in the first place?And man, the sequences throughout the film are insanely great. I believe the main example is towards the end where Sco has to run through a whole army that's running in the other direction, it's of the best and most suspenseful sequences of the year. A bit before that, there is another great sequence, that's just gorgeous, with the flare guns, and bombs lighting up the sk, while Sco runs and people shot at him.The cinematography as a whole is outstanding, Roger Dickerson is really one of the (if not the) best cinematographer working today. It's beautiful.The acting is really good as well, George MacKay is the heart and soul of the movie. Dean-Charles Chapman is also really good. And some great "cameos" of more known actors throughout the movie are also really entertaining, and they give solid performances. Like Benedict Cumberbatch, Richard Madden, Mark Strong, and Andrew Scott.The movie is is emotional, thrilling, and gorgeous at the same time, and the score is great.Anyways, to sum up, I freaking love the movie, it's one of the best war films I've ever seeing, it's my favorite 2019 movie, and truly an unique experience to have in a movie theater. There is not a better way to describe it than saying that it made me remember why I love cinema. And that's 100% true.
Harrowing tale of war, despair and determination told in a masterful way. Must watch for all the fans of the genre.
This movie has a mind of it's own. The way Mendes represents that every second is valuable is just amazing. I just need to watch it over an over again to process the amound of beauty in it.
The one shot trick really worked for me, I couldn't take my eyes of the characters and my attention and emotions were always with them, even though I did not know any of them very well. It's one of the most beautiful movies shot this year, the cinematography is breathtaking, the suspense is high and the tension heavy. It's dramatical and so engaging with the viewers. Should win pratically everything in the technical categories and even perhaps best movie of the year.
1917 was a very moving display of the First World War and if any long loving veterans were alive today to see such a movie, I'm sure they would have been glad to see their experiences and stories told in such a successful way and if they could see the profound effect it had in some people I'm sure they would have been moved to tears. Overall will not be a movie to forget!
When I watched this movie in theaters, I was shook by both the unbelievably beautiful and terrifying pictures and the continuity of the story.
The movie is filmed as if it was one 2 hours long continuous shot and it really adds to the overall movie and helps to immerse you into the story.
The main characters and the rest of the story are just as great so if you haven't seen this movie yet, it is 100% worth watching.
A must see movie. One of the best war ever. I was crying like baby.
I was surprised at how well put together this movie was. Beautiful and yet disturbing in the right way.
Boring as all hell. I've never seen a movie about such an exciting subject be so boring. The "one take" gimmick hurt the movie. If this could have been edited with multiple set ups the movie could have been much better. After about 20 minutes of following behind people and time filler dialogue I really started to notice the real time format. I was really interested to see how they were going to pull it off. I am very interested in new camera work and story telling but this time it hurt the movie.When he goes up the hill in the woods forever I almost left. There was no reason for that. I'm sure Mendes was watching the movie during editing and wished he could make some cuts. Doing Rope as "one shot" works and doesn't dictate the story. With this it dictated the story telling.
I really did not expect this - the first half was excellent - gritty, bleak and conveying a real sense of the horror and mud slogging awfulness of trench warfare. Then it descended into ridiculous melodrama spliced with mawkish sentimentality. The sense of an urgent mission sang away in the wind and when a pristine letter was finally handed over after a torrential river scene all credibility was shredded. Photos perfectly preserved in a tin box too. Mark Strong's was the only outstanding performance which was also a sad surprise.
Just finished it in cinema. There's really not a lot to say other than the pseudo one-take. Flat, predictable, lack of focus, scenes that feel completely out of place, no emotional payoff, unmemorable acting. All results of this rather forced one-take effort. And to be honest it's a pseudo 2-take really with that blackout in the middle. I can't believe this could win best film in any year.
Somebody goofed!In the scene where the airplane crashes, the house and barn are badly damaged, but the surrounding pasture looks a prestine green, without any torn up earth or bomb craters. Similarly, when Schofield runs across 'no-mans-land' in front of the trenches, bombs rain down, and create craters, but there are no old craters from previous attacks (?) Where he is running looks as well-manacured as NFL astroturf! Also, directly in front of these trenches, there are no coils of defensive barb wire (?)The director could be forgiven for one blunder, but three are a bit too much to 'suspend my disbelief' !
I thought we would finally have a solid WW1 film in store, but instead we got a horror film meets a fairy tail. I wish they spent as much time and effort on writing the plot and the script as the did on the cinematography and set design. The acting was robust no doubt, but I would expect a film of this caliber with a $100M budget to hold at least the slightest bit of historical accuracy or realistic screenplay. This film made Hacksaw Ridge look like a History Channel documentary and The fact that the hollywood foreign press gave 1917 a Golden Global for best drama just proves Ricky Gervais right.... Netflix has already won. They made a mockery out of The Great War.
Well shot but poor story and poor characterization, l am sure the cast and crew had some huge technical obstacles to cross but I think it was all lost with the poorly developed characters
This plot literally made no sense at all.
Why were these two soldiers (and only them) chosen for such an important mission?
If it was so imperative to get this message to the troops - why not seed it by plane?
The message could have reached the troops within an hour instead of two days.
If the messenger is on such an important, life saving mission - they why does
he take on snipers and other enemy soldiers he encounters?
I was anticipating much more.... oh well.
I'm glad I didn't waste money at the theatre for this.
Let's get to it... These two guys wouldn't have lasted 10 minutes in this war being consistently naive as they are. Here's some questions for you: Would you stand in an open field watching an enemy plane get shot down above you and not move an inch until it almost crashes in to you? Would you try to save the enemy from the burning plane after your own guys put effort in to shooting him down? Would you discover a pail of milk and fill your canteen with it instead of the nearby water outlet? Would the obviously resourceful enemy leave the milk just sitting there? Would the enemy leave the dairy cow alive, knowing their enemy would soon be there, low on supplies? Then, would you give your milk away to a woman with a baby? (gee, how convenient.) Would a truck driver in an open field drive through the only mud puddle for no reason only to get stuck? I'll stop here. The movie was ok, way to simple of a plot, and way too many holes. I didn't appreciate the unnecessary editing magic that eliminated any/all cuts. Hope this helps.
First World War. Blake and Schofield, two British soldiers, have to deliver a message to an isolated regiment. If the message doesn't reach them, 1600 men are going to die. It's going to be a near impossible task for the two young men, but nevertheless they dare to cross the enemy line.Frankly, Sam Mendes' 1917 is a big disappointment. It looks amazing, that much is true, but everything else is severely lacking. Yes, the camera by the always amazing Roger Deakins is a highlight: The scope is unbelievably wide, yet it feels like Deakins is teasing and daring the audience to look beyond the movie screen. Fantastic stuff! But visuals alone don't make a movie.There's rarely a theme in 1917 that feels fresh and daring. It's a textbook war movie: There's a tragic death, a big shootout and a forced moment of tenderness and love. It's so predictable it's almost painful. The set piece at the end is truly breathtaking, but the ending itself is downright sappy.At the end of the day, 1917 doesn't bring many new ideas to the table. It tries to wow the audience with grandiose landscapes, but the two soldiers and their quest keep strangely one-dimensional.
Visually this film is amazing. Beautifully shot. The cameos are great and story style of meeting new people along the way.I didn't think Chapman was/is a great actor in this film - don't recall seeing him before - so it was a positive that he doesn't last the duration.The French girl and baby seemed a bit unnecessary as well and was clearly a point for the milk to be of use.Good film.
In two words, "PUNK ROCK". This movie makes/lets you experience the dark, unexplored side of a war.Generally, war movies are based on WW2. This one is inspired by the WW1 stories told by the director's grandfather. Due to his short height (5.1"), he was usually assigned the tasks of delivering the messages, crossing German territory. Inside the German borders, the mist used to hang at about 6 feet, so he wasn't visible above the mist.Thanks to the smart editing of the movie, it creates an illusion of the continuous shot. It leaves an immersive effect on spectators. You feel like you are also going inside the German borders with the two English soldiers. This movie is going to win three Oscars for sure : 1 Best movie, 2 Best Cinematography, and 3 Best sound mixing... and (Maybe, 4 Best director..)The story:
"Two young British soldiers, resting under a tree, receive new orders. They are instructed to pass on a message to the troops at the front line who are planning to attack the Germans, who have retreated. The English command, however, gets to know that the German withdrawal is a tactic, an operational Trojan horse. The telephone lines are down. The two messengers must quickly traverse the dangerous ground and physically deliver the order to the fellow British troops who might charge directly into a German trap, thereby saving countless lives. Among those troops, one soldier is the elder brother of the messenger "Lance Corporals Blake".They go to a nerve-shattering journey: an unfortunate barbed-wire encounter, a mysterious bunker to contend with, a German warplane crash-landing, an intense clash with German soldiers during the night, and swimming through the blood-freezing water of a German river.In their dangerous mission, one of those two soldiers, Lance Corporals Blake, gets martyred."According to me, the most emotional scene is the conversation between the surviving messenger and the elder brother of the martyred messenger.There wasn't a single person in the audience with dry eyes when the elder brother of the martyred messenger asked the surviving messenger, "ohh!! My brother has also come! Where is he?".
One of the best films that I've seen in a while and my favorite for the Oscars. The nearly 2 hour movie went by in no time. I didn't realize while watching that my emotions had become so heightened because by the end I had tears in my eyes. Was not expecting that. Would highly recommend!
This is my first movie review on this site. AMAZING MOVIE. Please, go see it. 11 out of 10.
I feel like i can write at least 4 pages about this movie but let's keep it short. First of all i love that the actors are 'real' i mean let's be realistic no one has the Rock as father, or Zac Effron at your school. The George Mackay is doing an AMAZING job. Like really full props to him, as wel as Dean-Charles. The movie is unique because it has just a few cuts in it. Like literally only three. You really get the pov but like as third person if that makes any sense. You get to see the realness of the character and really get a feeling of how things went down in WWI. And then we're not even talking about the music because oh my god, the music is outstanding. The violins really give you the full blown away feeling, maybe that's because i watched it in the cinema but i'm sure that with good headphones you'll get the same effect. Because the entire movie is almost one take you're really getting into the feelings of the character. You know just as much as the character. Nothing more nothing less. It was also a really good twist that Chapman died, i would've suspected that Scho would've died because he wasn't really in the spotlight at the beginning anyways. Really a good war movie and i would definitely watch it again! I btw saw this movie three times in the cinema so there's that
Much has been made about the technical achievements with this film, the editing creating the illusion of the single take and the long, carefully choreographed shots needed to achieve that. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't interested in this, I stopped counting at five shots though, because of course that's not it's core strength. Granted it does anchor you in the action, you're right there, something not to be sniffed at, but it's the story and those involved that pulls you in. 1917 is as visceral and terrifying as you'd expect. It'll have your jaw quivering on the floor. The story of two young soldiers attempting to get a message, in a race against time, to save hundreds of their like from near certain death, as the Germans plan a surprise attack. Cramped trenches, open countryside, shell beaten towns, people drifting in and out of the narrative. It could've been complicated, but it's the simplicity that shines here and allows the cinematic hopelessness to weigh on you. If there's one thing that films like this share, it's the common portrayal of the pointlessness of war. Lives lost, friends lost, clinging on to hope and humanaity. To be perfectly honest, it's a struggle to put this into words, but it's brutal, amazing, with a brilliant cast all at the top of their game. Stunning.
This is art. Great actors, great directing and great cinematography.
Before going into this film I'd seen plenty of reviews, award mentions, trailers and a strange amount of behind the scenes clips. Everything I saw told me that film should be fantastic and that's what I was worried about. Had I built up an opinion of the film before even seeing it? Would I only focus on the one shot cinematography?So by the time I sat down in a full cinema a few weeks into the film's release I was a bit nervous about the end result. Thankfully I didn't need to worry. Every exception was met and then some. I was in awe of the cinematography but I was certainly not distracted. It served the film excellently. There were some beautiful images to be enjoyed coupled with some of the most tender moments to come out of a horrific war film. The rise and fall of the score kept up with the scenes being laid before us and it's true that George MacKay was utterly brilliant.The performance of his was brilliant and I fear it was outshone by the rest of the noise about the film. None the less he pulled off a difficult and demanding role that I'm sure kept the audience on the edge of their seats to holding back tears in the final moments.A fantastic film, not just an art film and not just a war film. Something greater has been captured here by the team the brought together 1917.
Just been to see 1917 ... wow !!!Loved everything about it from start to finish.The single take non stop action, the ever changing scenes, the amazing sets, the innovative cinematic skills & brilliant lighting, the detailed costumes, the acting, the cameos, the tension, the story, the feeling of immersion, the tragedy, the scale of it, the ambition, the imagination, the sounds, the music, even the titles are worth an Oscar.More of the same please Mr. Mendes & co.
Just i can say that it is the best cinematography Oscar next winner..dont listen to those who are sayying it is boring or long movie as it is one of the most marvelous war film i ve ever watched.
Following these young soldiers as they get through the dreadful spaces of No Man's Land during World War 1 in this film is a very immersive experience. I cried a few times watching this movie. It was a fantastic experience.
This film made me create an account on this site and leave my first ever review on anything. I was not expecting this. I was hooked from the start and felt like I was in the movie experiencing the journey myself. I have never been so attached from reality while watching a movie. Or should i even use that phrase because what this movie showed was actual reality once. Let's say this movie attached me from the reality of our modern time of peace and just for few hours brought my mind to the reality of war over 100 years ago. This is a movie for all humans with human emotions.
I got watery eyed multiple times during the movie. I have got watery eyed during some emotional movies before and I thought that was the level of emotion this movie could bring me and keep at. Not the case. I was shown a whole new level of emotional movie experiences. This movie experience was going to be like nothing else before. It felt like I was building tension inside my body from holding back emotions during the movie. After the movie finished I was in shock. I could only stare at the credits without moving a limb except clenching my fists to hold back tears because I didn't want to start crying in the movie theater. I could feel my heart rate go up and breathing getting shallower and faster. I was even shaking a bit. This was a real moment for me. There was only one couple of people left in their seats clearly emotional too when we finally slowly left the theater after I got back my ability to move. I couldn't say much to my fianc while we were walking home. She was concerned because I was so quiet and asked me how I was feeling and I only could tell her that I just wanted to go home so I could cry. We got home, I let all the built up emotions out and cried my eyes out to my fiancs scarf while hugging her making her cry too. It felt like my soul was washed when I let the emotions loose with the tears flowing out. It was a relief. I felt pure. This was very unique and personal experience. It's amazing how art can have such an effect on human emotions. I had never been made feel likes this before by a piece of art. Now I have. I am grateful.
1917 is a masterful film. The visuals, sound design, directing, storytelling and performances are all top notch. The acting from everyone was phenomenal, especially the two leads. They both gave incredible and mesmerizing performances and their characters were really compelling even if one of them gets killed off pretty early. The directing is some of the best I've ever seen as it looks like one very long shot which added a lot of tension to the film and making you feel like you're there with these characters. The music is absolutely astonishing and definitely the best I've heard in a while. Overall, 1917 is one of the most intense and emotional films I've ever seen. It's a film that I will hold in high regards in the years to come and is already an all time favorite.
From the first trailer, 1917 mesmerized me in a way few movies have. My husband and I waited with almost comical anticipation to see this in the theater; both of us are lovers of history and find World War I to be terribly undervalued in modern media. After having just come back from the theater, I am left shaken and utterly moved by the experience.1917 follows two British soldiers who must deliver a message by crossing perilous ground to save not only one of their brothers, but 1600 men walking into a trap while under the impression the war is nearly won. Never before have I seen a war movie so effectively grounded and clinging to the perspective of the leads; this first-person perspective delivers a brutal raw, gritty, personal feel that I wish more movies would emulate. This intimate perspective is aided by continuous shot film-making; while the movie is not, indeed, one shot, the majority of it certainly feels so, keeping us gripping on to the task at hand with merciless abandon as if the viewer is the one delivering the message. The majestic yet dark tone of war is consistent, gripping, and enthralling. Often we are taken through the post-apocalyptic feel of a ruined battlefield; the camera passes over masterfully placed corpses of both man and beast without much thought to linger, giving the lives lost just as much attention as the shells, shots, and foes that snuffed them out. It is utterly devastating and depressingly gorgeous, and that's not even touching upon the battlefield scenes at night, where the moving lights of flares and fire kiss the wasteland of mud and stone with such grace I was brought to tears.As someone who rarely cries even when a person close to me has passed, I am somewhat embarrassed to say 1917 brought me to tears three times, unlike any movie which came before it. It's not an intentionally heartstrings-tugging movie; however, as a lover of history, this absolute love letter of a film filled me with such wonderment I was left feeling a sense of awe and overwhelming sympathy for the men who were once asked to do unspeakable crimes and heroic actions for their fellow men. The two leads here are interesting and likable, though they are just developed enough so that it feels like they could be anyone's child, lover, brother, or father. In this way, 1917 manages to be both deeply intimate and all-encompassing, succeeding at an immensely difficult task that few other war movies--if any--have accomplished before it.Rarely have I watched a movie that has affected me to this extent. I will be thinking about 1917 and its lasting impact for years to come.
The continuous shot really immersed me into the film and the whole thing is shot wonderfully. Excellent cinematography! The technical skill was impressive. Sam Mendes you rocks!!
Once in a while a movie comes along that moves me to my core. One that keeps running in my head over and over. 1917 has had that effect on me!!! Stunning cinematography, with very very long shots beautifully crafted. I realized that I was holding my breath a couple of times when watching the movie and everybody in the audience was extremely mesmerized and quite, just absorbing every bit of this work of art!!! I can already hear the words... and the Oscar of Best Motion Picture goes to 1917!!!! Very well done!!!!
Every warfilm that gets released people instantly jump on the "cliche" band wagon. War is war and always will be so ofcourse there will be similarities so just get over it..
I'm a huge warfilm buff and being in the military I see more things in war movies that annoy me than an regular person but I dont let them reuin the entertainment side.
If you dont want a cliche dont watch a war film simple.
Back to the topic, 1917 is epic.
Totally gripping through the entire movie it blew my mind. It truly was a techincal mastepeice and deserves every acolade it gets.
Cannot wait fir 4k with an atmos mix!
Not a bad movie, but kind of boring. I would rate this about a 6.3. Midway was much better, even though it has a lower rating. How this movie has an 8.7 is beyond my imagination. Again, nothing wrong with it, just kind of boring.
We left after the first hour. I can't remember ever doing so previously.
Never have the trenches of World War One been so tidy -- never have the ruined walls and arches that surround them been so picturesquely arranged -- never have the fingernails of the soldiers been so clean, their teeth so straight and white, their hair so artfully mussed. Even the rats looked like extras who had wandered in from a live action remake of Ratatouille. Did the filmmakers not see Peter Jackson's They Shall Not Grow Old? About fifteen minutes in my wife and I knew with a certainty that one of the handsome chaps would not go the distance, and once the remaining handsome chap was on his own we knew with an even greater certainty that he would meet a cowering French peasant girl in a barn or cellar, and that she would be clutching an infant while shells exploded overhead, and sure enough, about forty minutes later, there she was, fresh from having her tumbling golden curls blown out at a good salon. We relished the interiors of the buildings in the ruined town, where patches of brick showed through the plaster walls with all the gritty realism of the decor of a 1950's Italian restaurant in Newark. And to yank us out of the movie right when we might have been giving over to it in spite of ourselves, cameos by Patrick Melrose and Robb Stark! Gorgeous technical work by Roger Deakins and team gets this a couple of stars. On Oscar night that will be the wife and me me rolling my eyes when this wins best picture.
Well acted and literate, and elevates history, all of which are good, but I found it crassly manipulative, with too many scripted coincidences that amounted to unwitting parody of the genre "single mission war movie." For me, it became unwatchable. I walked out.
From the moment I first saw the trailer, I was captivated. Hell, all the movies that showed this trailer beforehand were overshadowed. I had very high hopes. As in I told everyone that this my favorite movie even though I hadn't seen it. When I finally got to go, I was dying of anticipation. I was also scared I was going be disappointed.I was wrong. This movie was better than I ever thought any movie could be. I cried. Probably too much. I was crying when I left the theater. I was crying thirty minutes later because I couldn't stop thinking about it. I was thinking about the soldier who was singing Poor Wayfaring Stranger because he knew that they were going to die and the look on Schofield's face as the song was going on. I was thinking about Blake's death and how the words he spoke asked if Schofield knew the way. I thought of how Schofield almost gave up in the river, but then he saw the cherry blossoms. I thought of the moment they were in the abandoned German bunkers and they saw the picture of a family. I thought of Schofield not wanting to think of home and how he didn't want his medal. And I thought of how Blake would never get his medal or to see his family again. Of how he was killed because he wanted to be kind to the enemy. I thought of how, when Schofield woke, he must have thought he was in hell because of how the flares looked. And I thought of how he walked to the tree when the sun was setting. And of how he took out the pictures of his family. And the words come back to us.
Not all in the particular order but still. It's been five days yet I still tear up. It's a beautiful movie. I walked out changed.
Among all the wars World War I was the worst! Human lives were worthless! Two lance corporals carried a stupid order to the God forsaken front line to stop soldiers from dying? Hell no, these men were doomed no matter what!There is no honor by carrying the message because nobody cares! I can't see any friendship either! So what is left for us to see?
More like slow, lot's of pointless dialogue, ...One of the main characters (thankfully, the irritating one) get's stabbed trying to save a German downed pilot when he was determined to get to his brother not 5mins prior! Dies a minute later and is already blue in the face?There's a cow on an "abandoned" the farm, but there's a bucket 3/4 full of fresh milk but neither look for anyone?Then all of a sudden, two soldiers appear and help out. Where did they just appear from because the farm was surrounded bu open hills at least 200m all round?Cinematography and loud orchestral music does NOT make a movie, especially when that music is trying to convey emotion but just does not fit with the scene!Compare this to Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers, both of which I've watched about 5 times because the story, characters, etc were believable and GREAT!Average at best and fast forward to the end after the first hr!
Just cant get my head around a tired and wounded soldier manages to survive a very cold strong current river with a waterfall for miles and deliver the letter from the General. Must have had waterproof paper and ink back in the day. Spoiled it for me.
This film is the most realistic depiction of the horrors of the trench warfare of WWI that you will ever see. I can't imagine it ever being surpassed. The sets were just amazing. What a shame to waste it all of such a boring and irritating script.There were just so many plot points that struck us as absurd and unrealistic. The frequent occasions when you found yourself thinking "Well that's stupid" or "That would never happen" kept you from being fully involved with the film. Surely the Generals in command would not have trusted this mission to just two grunts. A squad could travel as quickly as a pair, and would have allowed them to include at least one experienced non-com who could make better choices. And the choices made by the two soldiers were so unbelievable. Like entering the German tunnels as a way to get to their destination. That's just insane. And the recovery of the one who was buried in rubble and the explosion was dramatic, but unrealistic. And once back in the open they come across a farm house and say they need to check if it is abandoned. Why? If your mission is so important just go around it. Then when the German plane crashes into the shed at the farm why would they risk their lives to rescue the pilot? They've been cursing the damn Germans since the tunnel explosion, so it would be more likely for them to run up and shoot the pilot, not rescue him. Then the endless scene with the French girl and the baby. And on and on.And just a comment about the "one shot" technique. At first it is captivating, and heightens the realism of being in the trench. But after the novelty wears off you find yourself frustrated with the slow pace of the action that is forced upon you by being stuck in real time. A blend of "one shot" and traditional editing would have improved things.Most people seemed to enjoy it, so you probably will too. But my advice is to wait for the DVD so you can make good use of the fast forward feature.
I went to the cinema to watch this film hoping it to be some sort of Saving Private Ryan or Enemy at the gates only to be really disappointed. Me and the person I went to watch the movie with were completely bored by the film and so were the people around us commenting the film as we left the movie theater.The film was low and boring and you quickly realise this is going to be the case in the first 15 minutes of film. I really don't get how this film got the golden globes over The Irishman or Joker. Not at all. Both are much better films than 1917 and both have better performances (although 1917 has good performances also, nothing to complain on that area). I was really disappointed with the film and with the Golden Globes result.
The sets,costumes,production in general are excellent.The story, imo,boring.Acting nothing special.I can't actually tell you what happend in the end as I don't remember...That's how underwhelming it was.
Written by Sam Mendes and Krysty Wilson-Cairns, and directed by Mendes, unless you've been living under a rock, you'll know that 1917 has been done in such a way as to give the impression that it all takes place in two single shots (the marketing material says one shot, but it's two - there's a cut-to-black/time-jump about midway through where no attempt is made to hide the transition). In reality, of course, there are a lot more than two shots (the longest single shot was just over 8 minutes), but the edits have been digitally 'hidden', much like Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) (2014) or Utya 22. juli (2018). Working with cinematographer Roger Deakins (who'll win his second Oscar for the film), Mendes wanted it to be the most immersive war movie ever put on screen. And although I have some issues with it, I think he's made an exceptional film, one in which form and content are unusually tightly matched, with the style extremely effective at delivering the story in a thematically justified manner.April 6, 1917; the Western Front. Two British Lance Corporals, Will Schofield (George MacKay) and Tom Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) are summoned to a meeting with General Erinmore (Colin Firth). Recently, German forces have fallen back, and Colonel Mackenzie (Benedict Cumberbatch) of the 2nd Battalion, Devonshire Regiment believes that if he attacks now, he can turn the tide of the war. However, he's unaware that the retreat is tactical - the Germans have fallen back to the heavily fortified Hindenburg Line and are lying in wait. With communication lines cut, Schofield and Blake are assigned to physically carry an order from Erinmore to Mackenzie calling off the following morning's attack. If they fail, 1,600 soldiers will be slaughtered.So, the film's big selling point is its aesthetic design. The use of the single-shot format is such a noticeable type of form that whenever it's used, it automatically places pressure on the content, which must justify why the film is shot this way. If the content can't do that, the form becomes gimmicky. Think of, for example, Rope (1948), which was edited to look like one shot, or Victoria (2015), which was legitimately one shot. Very little in either film justifies the stylistic design. Compare this with genuine one-shot films such as Timecode (2000) or Russkiy kovcheg (2002), and edited one-shot films such as La casa muda (2010) or the aforementioned Utya 22. Juli, all of which tie form to content in such a way that they become indistinguishable. And I think Mendes achieves like synergy.Is the one-shot effect distracting? At first, yes, it is a little, especially if you're playing the game of trying to spot where editor Lee Smith has hidden the transitions. But after sussing two edits in the first twenty minutes, I stopped looking, because I realised I was just pulling myself out of the film unnecessarily. In essence, once you go with the aesthetic on its own terms, you forget about trying to spot the edits, instead letting the cinematography do exactly what it's supposed to do - immerse you.Generally speaking, the majority of the film is shot in one of two ways - either the camera is behind Schofield and Blake, following their path, or it's in front of them, facing back towards them as they 'follow' its path. There are some minor deviations from this, but the film never leaves their presence. And because the two men are almost perpetually in motion, it means that the camera is almost perpetually in motion - if they're walking along a trench, we're walking along a trench; if they're moving slowly through a bombed-out town, we're moving slowly through a bombed-out town. Almost everything the camera does is because one or both of the protagonists are doing the same thing, further emphasising the correlation between form and content.The opening scene serves as a superb introduction to the technique. The film starts with a shot of a daffodil field, before pulling back and revealing Schofield and Blake taking a break. They rouse themselves and begin walking, first past more resting soldiers, then the mess, then down a ramp into the trenches. Geographically, it's a short walk, but thematically, it covers considerable ground, and perfectly encapsulates one of the main thematic reasons behind the single-shot - to accurately convey the importance of geospatial relations. We see the tactile transition from Edenic to hellish because we're moving in real-time through the milieu; we see the boundary between peace and war because the characters walk along that boundary. You shoot this sequence conventionally, and you undercut that.Along slightly more conventional lines, one also has to commend the work of production designer Dennis Gassner. Every location is visually unique - from a German bunker to an abandoned farmhouse to the bombed-out remnants of coust-Saint-Mein. His design of No Man's Land is especially laudable. When the men first crawl venture out, they immediately encounter a rotting fly-covered horse carcass. Gradually, however, the battlefield becomes more mechanised, until they eventually pass through a German artillery position, with their journey charting the progression of the conflict itself, which started on horses and ended up in tanks.Also in a slightly more conventional sense, one has to mention Deakins's work during the nighttime scenes in coust-Saint-Mein. The entire village has been reduced to nothing but the shells of buildings, and as we pass through the town, the only source of light is from the flares arching through the sky, which create very hard shadows in constant motion. The whole thing is almost otherworldly, and as the garish light traverses the sky, it's as if the ground itself is in motion, almost liquid-like. It might be a little too aesthetically beautiful for a film aiming for such gritty realism, but for aspiring cinematographers, you won't find a better study in how to compose a sequence using light and shadow.Thematically, by its very nature, 1917 is far more focused on the micro than the macro - you might learn something about life on the front, but you'll learn nothing about the politics behind the conflict. Partly because of this, it avoids, for the most part, the overwrought patriotism and cartoonish jingoism that make films like Saving Private Ryan (1998) so obnoxious. Indeed, the protagonists' nationality is largely anonymous, which is not something you can usually say of a war film. On the other hand, you shouldn't expect too much psychological insight. The Thin Red Line (1998) (for my money, the greatest war film ever made) it most definitely isn't. Having said that, however, I would value its simple individualised insights above something like the empty temporal trickery of Dunkirk (2017).In terms of other problems, the story is unquestionably paper-thin, but that's pretty much by design. One criticism I did have, however, is how well-groomed Scholfield and Blake constantly are, each with a perfect set of teeth. One only need watch They Shall Not Grow Old (2018) to see how unrealistic this is. Indeed, the duo look like they've just stepped out of the makeup trailer most of the time, and it's glaring enough on a couple of occasions to pull you out of things.All things considered though, I thoroughly enjoyed 1917. I thought the single-shot strategy worked exceptionally well, and even if the film is weak from a character/storyline/theme perspective, it didn't really matter when the form and content are this well matched. This could have become an empty technical exercise predicated on nothing, but Mendes hasn't allowed that to happen. The Great War was hell on Earth. 1917 doesn't make us feel what that hell was like. Because no film, no art form, can do that. But it's a very fine approximation.
Allow me to rewrite this entire nonsensical movie to what would have really happened:
General hands a pilot a message and tells him to drop it a couple hundred yards away.
Roll the credits.
Oscar for the shortest movie in history.
Thank you.
An undeniably great war film. The cinematography is unorthodox, where almost all the movie is composed of a utterly long, one take shot. This method adds layers of engagement to the audience as we see developments minute by minute very close to the characters. The subtle scores were mismerising. The deep emotional values subliminally streamed within the action teases your consciousness, push you further to think of dark struggles accompanying war.
The plot and the story of the movie is very intense, dramatic and suspenseful. The complete idea of filming the movie in one shot just adds a strawberry on the top. There is not much to say, except that I would recommend everyone to watch this movie.
The dramatic score, acting and all the surrounding of the battlefields and reliving all the intense situations pulls you deep into the movie, where you feel all the awfulness and distress of a war.
I knew this movie would be good and I had always been wanting to see it. From the beginning I loved the directing and camera work from the film, obviously Sam Mendez did a great job and I could tell from the first 5 minutes of the movie. The movie was shot without a transition or a cut scene between lines and characters, and it was shot without the use of a walking cameraman. The ability of being able to direct in this way and to focus zooming in or out on a character and viewing the troubles of WWI without a cut scene watching the two main characters walk through the trenches or travel through no mans land gives the audience a view of what WWI was like and they did a great job of representing it. Not that I know about WWI, but because they directed the movie in that way, it gives a great representation of the battles and struggles of war and the hardships that our main characters went through. Directing, Writing, Camerawork were all incredible in this film, that's what made it so special, but I still feel that there is something missing from it, something that I wish they included a bit more character growth and connection with the audience. However, it is still a great film and revolutionizing for film making.
While much has been said regarding 1917's achievements behind the camera, from its "one scene" structure to its astounding cinematography, I was pleased to find its technical feats in full service of its story. Director Sam Mendes' decision to limit the camera to "zero" cuts effectively forces audiences to remain with the films two young protagonists, no matter how bleak their journey becomes. 1917 is ultimately a triumph of cinematic storytelling; a sobering meditation on a generational loss of innocence and the true cost of war.
Two soldiers got the oder to bring a message to another companie. It should prevent that 1600 men run into the enemies trap. On that Journney, the two soldier face indescribable cruel and disgusting situations. In this movie one can feel with the very authentic and sympathic characters of the two soldiers and it feels bad for sure. It also shows how soldiers must cut out the impressions of war, because they have to survive. So they can't be sidetracked by the dead bodies all around. And it's also not filmed with a raised pointing finger.It's not only the often mentioned one-take-style in which the movie is filmed. It also has a complete authentical production design. All I saw looked very real from the clothes over dead bodies to the explosions and fighting scenes. That makes the walk of these young guys a high suspension travel through the abominations of war. The dialogues are suspense-driven, the camera is great, the sound fits in every second. Great done! Big movie! A MUST see recommendation!
This film was very well done to the extend that you grasp for air as you go along with the cast in their journey. Each scene was the epitome of perfection. There are no words to describe the cinematography skills that was used for this masterpiece.
One of the best movies by far , huge cinematography
Feels real and brings the emotions of war close to your heart. A must see.
This is a powerful film. It is also visually beautiful. A lot has been said about the single shot format and it's all true. The scenery and the imagery is incredible and you can feel the enormous size of the setting and the undertaking. There is really no reason not to see this film.One thing to be said about this film is that it does not glorify war. It is not an anti-war film. But it seamlessly highlights the horror and absurdity of WWI. I think that is just as important as anything else. It highlights the honor of the soldiers and their personal struggles while not glorifying what was one of the greatest slaughters in history.Another thing, the usage of wayfaring stranger was jarring. WowI absolutely recommend this film, to everyone.
The previews made 1917 look exciting, and I was told it was a good movie. All expectations were surpassed! This brilliant work of art was immersive, realistic, and emotional. I spent the movie in suspense, on edge, watching carefully as my instincts told me to be prepared to help the characters survive at any moment. I found myself crying more than once, uncertain if out of anguish or relief. Every single thing was ON POINT. Bravo!!!
Even if you're not a fan of War movies, I would still recommend this to anyone! It is a brilliantly told story that is beautifully shot, wonderfully acted and perfectly scored in terms of music! It is an absolute pleasure of a film. Each scenes keeps you intrigued and on the edge of your scene.Some war films have the hindrance of getting complacent and boring, but 1917 manages to keep you in and it flows so very well! Some fast past scenes with some nice character driven scenes; you won't be disappointed! It is the right length too, as some war movies have the habit of being too long for my liking. But at just under 1hr 50 odd minutes, it was a perfect length.Some cameos from some very famous actors will also surprised and please you!
Not a big fan of films set around this era and war so going into this I had no expectations.
But afterwards I could not fault this film at all. The direction of this was stunning and the continuous shot was incredible you felt like you were with the main character the whole way.
I'd give this a clear 10/10 a must see.
Sam Mendes' brilliant war epic, 1917, shows us the horrors which so many young men went through in the darkest days of the First World War. It also hints at the rare melancholic beauty of war, with scenes such as a soldier singing the American folk song (The Wayfairing Stranger) as his brothers in arms sit around him listening with intent. The way Mendes masterfully presents the contrasts of war to us signifies a director on the top of his game.The plot is relatively simple and is loosely based on stories from Sam Mendes' grandfather's own experiences of the First World War. Two soldiers, superbly played by Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay, are assigned to deliver a message behind enemy lines. It will stop 1,600 men, including one of the soldier's brothers, from walking straight into a deadly trap. The film puts you in mind of Saving Private Ryan (1998) and the HBO mini-series Band of Brothers (2001), and even Peter Jackson's First World War documentary They Shall Not Grow Old (2018). However none of them delivers the sense of urgency and hopelessness which 1917 exudes.Interestingly, the film is told in real time through a sequence of long takes. Mendes isn't new to the one shot idea, as shown in the opening sequence to 2015's Spectre, but he has never done it for a whole feature length film before. While there are masks and cuts if you look hard enough, this does not subtract from the feeling of urgency at all, in fact it heightens it. There are other films that play with the one shot formal such as Alfred Hitchcock's Rope (1948) and Victoria (2015) that arguably deal with relationships and characters more effectively. Technically, however, 1917 is something quite unique. What makes it remarkable is the work of cinematographer Roger Deakins, who creates a beautiful ballet with the camera, putting the audience into the shoes of the soldiers. This technique can get a bit distracting at points, nonetheless it generates images and emotions which you wouldn't be able to achieve with multiple shots. For example, there is one shot where one of the characters is running through some ruins while flares go up all around him. In this sequence the lighting and camera work combine to make something truly breathtaking, and is the stuff that dreams (or nightmares) are made of.The film is carried throughout by its two leads. Both Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay are utterly mesmerising, and MacKay in particular gives a performance of a career, and is completely believable in the role. It is a wonder why neither of them were nominated at this year's Oscars. There are also numerous big name actors who appear in minor roles throughout the film, such as Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Mark Strong, but they just act as seasoning which punctuates the overall narrative. That is not to disregard their contribution; Andrew Scott gives a perfectly dry and callous performance as a cynical Lieutenant, while Colin Firth gives a solid matter of fact performance as General Erinmore. It is all credit to the filmmakers' ingenuity for not making these cameos feel out of place or unduly dominate their respective scenes.The tale of love, loyalty and friendship that Mendes presents to us is something which everyone should bear witness to. It acts as a reminder of what those brave young men sacrificed. 1917 is worthy of all the praise given to it.
Thing about war movies is that there is no need for conversation to happen. Not everything must be explained in words. And 1917 did a good job on showing how war did happen and how it affected person.
Every scene of the movie will put you there on the scene . Amazing camera work , watch it on IMAX screen for maximum effect .
What a wonderfully told war story. Not a lot of dialogue, but the action and storyline was incredible.
The work and craftsmanship behind the movie really payed off. Not only was the cinematography fantastic, but the actors did a great job at portraying two young scared soldiers.When I watched it I felt like I was present and got really caught up, because of the whole one shot thing.
I think only maybe once or twice in a lifetime does a movie touch you so deeply that you feel like you're right there with the characters going through what they are. I am an avid movie lover but the only other time I experienced this was during Titanic back in '97.
I am a wife and a Mother and admittedly I can be a little emotional but I don't easily cry at movies. This. Movie. Well, it was truly brilliant and not just because of the way the story was told or the INSANE set design but somehow the director made you feel like you were right there with the characters walking timidly behind each one of their brave steps. This movie didn't glorify war or the good guys or even country this movie glorified the nobody specials who were the greatest hero's we'll ever know. It reminded us of the sacredness of each and every life, of family of friendship and the strength of the human spirit. I've never seen anything like it and probably will never again. I'm sorry but there needs to be something higher than the Oscar for this movie. My sincerest of thank you's to the actors who played the roles in this movie and the respect they gave each character. I would call the director a genus to his face and to every single person who worked on this movie, you made a masterpiece and you made history real to me and my family in a way that like I said, happens maybe once or twice in a lifetime. And I thank you for that.
After all these years superhero movies watch experience, I almost forget what true cinematography look like. I really enjoy this entre one shot movie, I love two main characters going through entire trenches scene, make everyone in the theather feel the terror of war. And the fire house scene probably the best scene I have seen in my life. Really appreacite everyone who make this masterpeice.
I don't understand the negative reviews. I'm positive they watched a different movie because this movie is a great achievement and the greatest war movie since Saving Private Ryan.I've read a few reviews that say the one shot style is a gimmick and I 100% disagree. The one shot style draws you into the story like nothing else. You are there the whole time with these 2 men in one of the worst times in history. The level of tension you feel the whole time wondering if a sniper is going to take them out or they get shot by a random German at any time is why it works.You feel the emotion as they do, the tragedy, the sorrow and everything else that happened along the way. Personally, a movie is a great movie if it can move you emotionally. This movie moved me many many times.Once the movie finished, we all just sat there in silence while we thought over what we had just seen. I know war is hell and I know WWI was way worse than what we saw. But that doesn't take anything away from the masterpiece that is 1917.Thank you to all who made this and to the great men that fought and sacrificed their lives for our freedom.
Amazing film. Modern day saving private ryan. Excellent from start to finish.
One of the first movies in a long time to keep me on the edge of my seat for its entirety. Cinemetography is amazing, story is gripping and acting is superb. Highly recommend!
1917 Is A Masterpiece - Stunning Cinematic Experiece Through A Single Continous Shot.Film Will Give You Bone Chilling Experiece With Captivating Screenplay And Mind Blowing BGM. Movie Is Directly Perfect In Legendry Style Without Any Doubt. Visuals Are So Great And Plot Is Looks So Real That You Will Merge On It.1917 Is A Best Epic War Movie Ever Made Till Now, Actors And Team Were Done His Task In Perfect Way Without Any Single Mistake. Movie Pace Is Awesome You'll Never Feel Boring Apart, Everything Is In The Great Sequence.This Story Shows You Emotional , Gripping , Intense And Brutally War Scenario.At Last, Thank You - Sam Mandes For This Gem.
This movie was so overwelming. The Imax screen and sound along with the outlandish and frankly groundbreaking camerawork just added to the experience. The tension was palpable and consistent. Very little time for breathing. Like a horror movie. A 2 hour non stop thrill ride, with few tension release moments.At the bridge scene, I just could not take it anymore. My heart could not stop pounding. My BP went up the sky. This felt so real. I went home. I needed a little bag to breathe. My wife called the doctor. They sent an ambulance!! I could not fight in a war. I know that, because I was in one yesterday. And I felt like almost dying of the tension alone.How real does a movie experience has to be? I saw my first movie in 1983, in a small theater. But this is the first time I had to call an ambulance. I wanted to see the remaining 45 min. But the paramedics ordered me to see badboys 3 instead.Next week Schofield and Blake...I will risk an attack to stand beside you. But who will be the last man standing? Stay in the frame, please.....
Awesome film, not sure about the water fall in northern France though
Keep in mind, war movies are not really my thing. Some get preachy on this topic or another (usually "war is bad" or "(insert opposition name here) were evil"). I was ready for a message of some sort. How wrong I was! From remarkable writing, engrossing action, stellar acting, compelling storyline, and being along with the main actors...top notch all the way with nary a message or lesson.
The cameos were long enough to provide some detail or help while short enough to be important to the storyline. Any goofs are not noticeable nor do they detract. I felt as if I were along with them: ducking shrapnel, doing this job, feeling time pinch, nervous, and curious.
Very much worth a watch. Especially since it is an "A" game film all around.
The continuous shot is amazing, just make me feel get into the scene. It's a challenge for actors for this shot under normal situation. Nevertheless, it's not a normal situation, it's a war background with all the chasing in tranche and escaping somewhere in the woods, under the waters. Even though it's not one take shot indeed, but the technique adopted is astonishing and the preparation should be lots more than other usual movie. The story itself is straightforward, but the process just make me watch intently. Just hold my breath and exciting for many scenes. Surely will watch 2nd times to see any flaws and details.
I was in two minds about this film. I am a big war film enthusiast, but unsure as to what Mendes' take on it would be. There was however no chance I was going to miss this highly touted film. And I'm so glad I went to see this on the big screen yesterday.First of all it is a simple plot, two lads are to go on a journey into 'no mans land' to send a message to another unit to cease them making the big push into what was expected to be a German ambush. Sounds pretty basic, and in essence it is. However, there is enough meat on the proverbial bone to keep you interested, and allows the familiar team of Mendes and Deakins to work their magic.The acting itself was to a good standard. McKay especially was entirely believable and made you go through a rollercoaster of emotions with him. From the scene with his recently deceased accomplice, the scene in the basement with the women and child, and the scenes at the end listening to the man singing and the scene informing the lieutenant of the passing of his brother, were all a contrast in human emotions, and he took to all of the roles well. After watching the film, I am a little disappointed he didn't get mentioned in the nominations for the Oscars (there are others on the best leading actor list that I felt were inferior to McKay's performance). However on this showing, he looks like he has a bright future ahead of him.
There were some big British names making cameo roles. Mark Strong especially was excellent (as usual).
All in all, the cast adequately supported the real star of the film. The cinematography.For me, the real magic of a film is in the detail. Not a performance from a big time actor (although excellent performances help), or masses of special effects, or a plot with multiple layers. All of these things help towards putting together a good film, but for me how the film looks and sounds is how a get sucked in to a production.
Deakins and Mendes, are a duo who constantly do this. Deakins especially seems to get the most out of the landscape for whichever movie of his you are lucky to watch. The baron landscapes and locations of 'The assassination of Jesse James', the dreamy electrical world of the new 'Blade Runner' and especially for me the typical North Dakotan vistas of 'Fargo', are only a few of his works that highlight how incredibly imaginative and clever Deakins is. Even the pairs attempt at Bond produced possibly the best looking Bond film of the series in Skyfall.
Pairing Deakins artistry with Mendes' direction is always a visual treat. Combining the beauty Deakins provides, with the dark and often brilliantly harrowing style Mendes brings to his films, has previously left me wide eyed and ready for more. This is no exception. The idea of the whole film being presented to the viewer as one whole shot, just works. As we are sucked in, cheering for the main character through his long and arduous journey. It seems relevant to shoot the film this way. And at the end you are left wanting more.
The perfect scene to sum up the Mendes/Deakins combo, is when McKay opens the door to confront a German sniper up close and personal. And in typical Sam Mendes fashion, it's a personal and shocking encounter. When McKay regains consciousness, he opens the door to inspect the dead German and out the window he sees the ruins of the town illuminated by flares being shot overhead. The shadows moving as the flare crosses over it, paired with the soundtrack was possibly one of the most stunning pieces of cinema I've ever seen, producing a lump in the throat moment. Visually beautiful.Because of the digital age we live in, I only now buy DVD's of the films that really make an impression on me. This will be added to the collection.
We have seen the majority of the main Oscar nominated films this year, and 1917 should clear up for me (possibly the odd one for The Irishman).
The film takes you on a journey through despair, sadness, joy, humour, anxiousness, and many other for the full two hours. And you believe every beautiful minute of it. That for me is the mark of a good film.
One of the most technically challenging, amazingly executed works of art I have ever seen! Guaranteed to win technical awards, and worthy of Best Picture, even though the story and character development are thin.The imagery is haunting, as is the score. The sets and lighting, even the color palette, are perfect. The suspense is palpable, and the horrors of war are mostly seen in the aftermath.I was in absolute awe at the masterful craftsmanship. Six months of rehearsals were needed to pull off this "one take" movie, and it shows.My son also loved it. My girlfriend hated it. So, leave her behind?
We all talk about story being the paramount bit of making a fantastic movie. Now we big budget blockbusters year round so being amazed by special effects is getting more and more rare. But the cinematography and film making in this was fantastic. Making the movie as if it were one shot was amazing. Saying Roger Deakins is stellar at his job is redundant but he and Mendes make a great team. It was key to this movie being as great as it is, it doesn't feature climactic battle scenes but it is no less thrilling than some other notable pictures in the genre. I'm not a big buff for cinematography, but this was so well captured and masterfully done that I continually was commenting on how beautiful and scary the atmosphere was in this film.While I can't describe 1917 as story focused or dialogue driven, it does run the emotional gauntlet. This movie had me in knots, the tension is thick and they really make you feel the possible consequences their mission failing and how anything could happen at any moment. I've already talked about the cinematography but the flow of the plot brings you in. The unpredictable nature of the story puts you on the edge of your seat and helps you understand how nightmarish and chaotic time this was in history. I laughed (more like chuckled) in this movie, I almost cried and it never felt manipulative or unearned. I was completely drawn in and left the theatre pretty jacked up.Going with some lesser known actors for the leads in this played to this movie's strengths. Some stars going over the line might have been distracting and taken away from the rest of the movie. I didn't realize during that I had seen both George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman but they're a long way from 11/22/63 and Game of Thrones. Both are solid and do an appropriate job showing horror of the situation. My favourite in the supporting performances was Andrew Scott as Lieutenant Leslie. I haven't liked him in anything else but Sherlock but he was pitch perfect here. I also liked Colin Firth and Mark Strong in their respective supporting performances. All the acting in the movie gets the job done and there wasn't an obvious weak performance in the bunch.The complaints I had when watching this movie were few to none. My friend complained a little about some slack pacing but I didn't find a dull moment in this movie. There are quieter and more intimate scenes but I think they were included to sell the gravity of the situation and to let the audience catch a breather. If you're expecting a giant fight, then you might be disappointed but its more of a man on a mission story than a wartime epic.1917 shares many things with recent war hit Dunkirk. Both aren't story-driven, they both drop the audience right in the middle of the action and both feature famous players in supporting parts but trust up-and-comers to lead the way. I think 1917 is the superior film, Dunkirk has the action but I think 1917 does a better job of getting you to care about their characters and showing what it will take to overcome these unbelievable circumstances. I recommend this movie wholeheartedly and provided you're not too squeamish (the movie isn't terribly violent but there's plenty of stuff to make your stomach turn), this is well worth seeing on the big screen. Catch it in theatres when you get the chance
As Michael Scott writes in his book The Enchantress, "There was no honor in war, less in killing, and none in dying. But there was true dignity in how men comported themselves in battle. And there was always honor to be found in standing for a just cause and defending the defenseless", the drama war movie 1917 perfectly illustrates this quote and depicts the horrifying struggle for survival in the First World War.The film opens with a calm scene from which we're directly introduced to the protagonists who are about to find out the "heroic" mission assigned to them. The camera cleverly moves along the trenches first in front of the two soldiers then behind them without a single cut, creating a war game like atmosphere, placing the watcher among them as the third man. Roger Deakins who has proved to be a master of cinematography makes good use of the shadows to obtain a continuous shot as the two comrades receive their orders and begin their race against the time.Throughout the film Deakins makes use of numerous procedures and tricks as cameras on scouters or drones and props that can be moved or disassembled to create the feeling that the film is a continuous shot filmed by a single camera much like the 2015 Oscar winning picture Birdman or Gaspar Noe's films: Irreversible and Enter the Void.As the two boys prepare themselves to cross the no man's land an unsettling feeling captures their faces, the same terror seen on the eyes of the men covered in soaking wet uniforms, crouched in the cold, muddy ditches.
The music score beautifully written by Thomas Newman builds an incredible thrilling suspense that slowly grows with the ongoing mission and keeps you at the edge of your seat throughout the entire movie creating a parallel to Nolan's Second World Word masterpiece, Dunkirk.The images of the young lads crossing this muddy fields as the rats rattle and stroll besides their feet in searching for dead corpses to eat, combined with a tense music gives you a cold shiver down the spine. In this moment one realizes how brutal and senseless war really is for the common infantry soldiers who must follow any order given by their superiors.Finally, they reach the enemy's trenches just to see them destroyed and abandoned. Along the way to the Second Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment there are multiple impediments that Germans make sure to leave behind their retreat such as planted bombs in the bunker in the scope of burring them alive, destroyed artillery that cannot be used, trees that are blocking the roads, destroyed bridges or even dead cows.The garden of blossomed cherries cut down is a metaphor on death which is coming to cut short the life of a man in his prime. Blake and Scofield find themselves at an abandoned farm where after a two versus one plane fight, they save the German pilot's live by pulling him out of the burning plane. The pilot cowardly stabs Blake in the guts and then dies as he takes two shots from Scofield. The young boy who without any hesitation rushed to deliver the message in hope he'll save his brother lays now on the cold earth with blood gushing through the fingers of Corporal Scofield who tries to comfort him.
Later in the film the same flower petals technique is used to depict the eminent approaching death who's after the lives of young men in the Second Battalion.Scofield is determined to continue the mission alone and after some struggles, he reaches the small town of coust-Saint-Mein as instructed. He encounters a young German and after sparing he's life he finds himself in the posture of running to save his own.On the scene of the night in coust, Deakins shows us once more why he's a virtuoso of his craft perfectly shooting a long chasing scene in the dense and dark night that is shattered from time to time just by the flares of the enemy.
The corporal miraculously escapes by jumping into a river that eventually will lead him to the Second Deavons. Exhausted after all the challenges encountered on his journey, he almost drowns but somehow finds the strength to swim and climb over the dead, swollen and disfigured bodies washed ashore.Singing in the Croisilles Woods is a symbolic and very powerful scene that shows stunted, marbled faces looking at a young man who sings a song before they're supposed to follow orders and go blind into war. The song refers to their mothers, their fathers and home and the main idea is that men do not fight for motherland or honor or some cheap metal object with a ribbon that is equivalent to a wine bottle, they fight to stay alive one more day and hope to make it home in one piece to see the loved ones.In the end Corporal Scofield must run along the battlefield bypassing the flying bombshells and avoiding the brave men who have no chance of triumph, to reach general McKenzie and to stop the attack immediately.
The chaos is choreographed with great talent by Mendes and Deakins who used extras, special cranes and cameras attached to a car to film the emphatic run of the main character.Although the Lance Corporal succeeds in his mission, we're left with the sorrowful contemplative words of what it looks like an experienced Colonel MacKenzie, "There's only one way this war ends. Last man standing".
In the end Scofield strolls in the medical camp through injured men who grunt form unsupportable pain in the hope of finding Blake's brother making this rescue mission to feel like a Saving Private Ryan story, only now the action is taking place in the First World War.In conclusion the film 1917 is a well-done braiding between great directorial vision, intelligent cinematographic means, thrilling music score and prominent acting that portray the horrors the world has seen in the darkest hour. In these times honor and justice are just two simple words, medals and decorations are worthless as Lieutenant Leslie says with contempt "nothing like a scrap of ribbon to cheer up a widow".
No wonder 1917 is getting awards by the truckloads- it is a fine war movie. Not only because it makes you abhor war, like every good war movie does. Also because it is without being overtly gritty, a very realistic portrayal of those lowest in the pecking order- the infantry-man. And also for the fact that technically- it is a marvel.It is also a very different kind of war movie. Thank god to the title, it did not need a prologue, or any character build up. We straightaway jump into the odd mix of silence and mayhem that trench warfare was in the First World War. We learn that the Germans have made a strategic withdrawal and are waiting to pounce on unsuspecting British forces chasing them, with the obvious mcguffin being telegram wires cut. The task of stopping the pursuing British forces from attacking the artillery reinforced Germans falls upon two Lance Corporals- Blake and Schofield, and they literally have to go through hell to succeed. Shades of another war epic from Spielberg I say, along with some inspiration from Tolkien of course."They're walking into a trap. Your orders are to deliver a message calling off tomorrow morning's attack. If you fail, it will be a massacre"The plot is based on a true story told by director Sam Mendes' grandfather. And Mendes goes all in to make 1917 an experience like no other. For people unfamiliar with WW1, a large part of the war was fought through two opposing trenches- the land between them known as No Man's land. Last time we saw No Man's land in a big budget mainstream release, it was Wonder Woman's launch pad. Grim, but still comicky. In 1917, the opening tracking shot has to be admired not only for the authenticity of the sets, but also the way Mendes is able to show change in attitude and morale of the soldiers as we get closer to the trench frontline. No man's land is hell itself though- dead horses with files buzzing around, dead soldiers hung up on fences or caked in the mud, craters that much rather be euphemistically called death pits, prowling aircraft waiting to machine gun stragglers, and the rats that are constantly feasting on still festering bodies- there is death everywhere even if the enemy has long left."You are in no man's land. Which never moves, which never changes, which never grows older, but remains forever, icy and silent."Blake and Schofield somehow make it through initially because they have each other. The loss of Blake at midpoint in addition to what he has already experienced strengthens Schofield's resolve further as he is on a race against time. And all throughout there are scenes that pay homage to past war classics- the encounter with a German sniper is reminiscent of Enemy at The Gates, the touching moment with the baby calls out to Ayer's 2014 tank classic -Fury, while the knife battle in the shadows again doffs its hat to Saving Private Ryan. It is to Mendes' credit that he makes Schofield's Frodo like journey believable till the end, even as he put his life one final time by sprinting through the battlefield to prevent the homicide.The two main leads do not have come with loads of experience, but they do an excellent job. Pity that the script did not allow for a Game of Thrones reunion. In fact this is perhaps the only film in 2019 where everything comes together in a perfect symphony- music, cinematography, realistic sets, CGI, acting and the script.The list of Oscar nominations for 1917 is a testament- Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best Original Score, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, Best Cinematography, Best Makeup and Hairstyling, and Best Visual Effects. The best part is that unlike Joker, this is no award baiting movie. This just has a honest story to tell, and Mendes tells that with honesty and style, and that is why it is my pick for all the awards it has got nominated for.This is a mesmerizing movie. Technically brilliant, and shot in a way that kind of immerses the viewer the way Dunkirk never could. Sorry Nolan.Here is a bet- watch the movie, and if you are not running in your mind as Schofield makes his final dash, I will pay for your ticket.
I am awed by the cinematography and direction of this movie. Each and every aspect of this movie is in such details that I was left speechless after watching it
Putting the camera on your two protagonists for the entirety of the film is a risky move. So is telling a fictionalised story in a historical setting. But here, it absolutely pays off.I was knocked back several times by both the horror and the beauty I was witnessing on screen. Unlike many war movies, it's not preoccupied with white male rage, mad-cap shenanigans and the gratuitous brutality of war. It focusses only on the mission the heroes, their surroundings and the many, many terrible and moving events in both in and out of the trenches.The music, direction, production design and cinematography should all win awards for this.
Wow! I just walked out of the theater with my girlfriend and we both are still in tears. 1917 is is a beautifully crafted yet epic violent tale of an impossible mission. The style and craft from Mendes directing this film to look like one take is done so well I have never seen anything like it before. Now granted I have seen some good films that are made to look like one take, but this film is done perfectly. The whole film I was shaking with goosebumps one minute then completely sobbing the next and then chuckling at some of the one-liners in the next scene. That being said, this film is building and you can feel it and that climax is so emotionally breathtaking and intense.The performances are outstanding and the cinematography is just incredible. What really ties this film together is Thomas Newman's score that is beautiful yet intense mirroring exactly what the film is. 1917 better win Best Picture and Best Director at least at the oscars and that is saying something in a year like this where there has been so many groundbreaking films and performances. 1917 is my new favourite film.
Blockbuster Director Sam Mendes (Skyfall) knows how to deliver gut punches through action and he brings an emotional roller coaster with this real time war thriller, where a few men stand tall in the impossible circumstances and find a way to triumph through sheer faith and will.The movie is shot with one take, seemingly in real time, which gives it a bizarre dreamlike quality. This experimental filmmaking goes far beyond what Hitchcock had in mind with his movie ROPE and the final cinematic result of 1917 would have made the king of suspense proud.They say the simpler the story the better it relates to the viewer, and the plot of 1917 is simple enough. All the complexity here is given through the imagery. The movie's name is 1917 and the visuals do give us the taste of what that year was really like. Senseless, impossible and terrifying, where the masses had been driven to insanity, but where a singular spirit still shines. "There's only one way this war will end," says the bitter colonel played by Benedict Cumberbatch. "With one last man standing." Which sums up the movies main theme, as one man's courage stands against incredible odds.1917 leaves a long-lasting impression and takes along time to digest. This is also a film that will appeal to many tastes and ages, as with all its dramatic complexity, at its heart it is no more than an adventure movie.
The film should be compulsory viewing for everyone in the UK! Shown to every school child (15 and over) to serve as a reminder of what we all owe to the many that have sacrificed for us in the past. The film is not glamorous or indeed gruesome, it doesn't say 'hell, yes we did it!' or have a wholly negative spin in an attempt to prove a point. It shows us moments of friendship, sadness, courage, kindness, duty, fear and honour. I came away from the cinema knowing I had experienced something special. Thank you Sam Mendes for crafting this so well!
I wasn't sure what to expect but I was pleasantly surprised. Realistic (I think) account of the horrors of war. Old style back and forth ground fights with little respect for human life. The acting was very realistic and had me hanging with every scene. Major subliminal messages that provokes the mind for those interested but also entertaining for those that aren't.
More than a film. An immersive experience. Everything that Deakins and co. wanted to convey is done to the finest detail, I couldn't take my eyes off it. Honestly one of the most gripping films I've seen, absolutely loved it.
A phenomenal movie! Absolutely loved it! You certainly feel every second as the director wanted.
"1917" It is a film, a film that transforms due to its applied technique, with a lint of script, the feature film directed by Sam Mendes conquers the viewer by its visual and technical direction, all simulated in a sequential plane and with a frightening sound mix, the claustrophobic and menacing film takes us on a journey that we will feel in our skin the linearity and terror of a war.The script is simple and clear, two cables have the mission of taking a message from one point to another, until the success of your object is dubious, because the journey here is worth more than the conclusion, the two cables, lived by the actors George Mackay and Dean-Charles are doing very well, although the film doesn't leave much room for us to contemplate performances, George's few moments of terror and anguish are great.In addition to a script that serves as an excuse to embark and enjoy a journey, the character developments are simple but profound, but the film puts itself at a pace where it is counterproductive to create depths, and when Sam Mendes does that, he is the only 5 minutes that we disconnected from the film.The technique of the film is the one that most stands out, simulating a sequential plan of a war movie seems very bold, when "Birdman" did it 5 years ago we were delighted, here, this feeling is even more elevated, care of technique that Sam Mendes had here is something to think about, it is clear that the sequential plans are simulated, we perceive their cuts, however, the long planes conducted are diverse and bold, although many of them are with little action on screen, their conduct is magnificent, with several open plans and a constant contemplation of the disaster, with mutilated bodies, rats and dirt, the disgust and fear is passed on to the viewer who accompanies that narrative stuck in the chair, much because of this narrative conduction and other fundamental aspects too, his composition of scenery, his photography that in certain moments blurs in order to create tension and darkens in planes with strong lighting that turns scenes into horror films, and last, but not least, the sound, everything that surrounds this important component of war film is great, starting with its mixing and ending with its magnificent soundtrack, the composer Thomas Newman abuses classical music and its equalization sound, always with high and progressive tones, in order to lead the viewer to the climax, as an element of horror film."1917" is not a cinematic perfection, we have some errors of continuism (which are acceptable in a sequential plan), we also have a problem when the film uses special effects instead of practice, as such effects are very perceptible, even so "1917 "is a spectacular film, very similar to classics such as" Saving Private Ryan "and recent films like" dunkirk ", whose immersion capacity is the same.Sam Mendes returns to be very prestigious 20 years after his classic "American Beauty" with an extremely technical film and who has everything, even in an extremely busy year to become the highlight of the Oscars and awards. NOTE 9/10
1917 will always be remembered as a complete masterpiece.
I was excited about this upcoming war movie for the various trailers and behind-the-clips shown about two months before its release, then it was getting a lot of attention during Awards Season, so I made sure to see it on a big IMAX screen, from BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated director Sir Sam Mendes (American Beauty, Road to Perdition, Jarhead, Skyfall). Basically, during the First World War in April 1917, the German army has pulled back from a sector of the Western Front in the north of France. General Erinmore (Colin Firth) briefs two young British soldiers Lance Corporal, Blake (Game of Thrones' Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (Sunshine on Leith's George MacKay). Aerial reconnaissance has confirmed that the Germans are not retreating but have made a tactical withdrawal to their new Hindenburg Line, where they are waiting to overwhelm the attacking British with artillery. With field telephone lines cut, Blake and Schofield are ordered to hand-deliver a message to the Second Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment, calling off their planned attack, which might cost the lives of 1,600 men including Blake's brother Joseph (Bodyguard's Richard Madden). Schofield and Blake cross no man's land and reach the abandoned German trenches. These turn out to contain tripwires, and a rat triggers a planted bomb. The ensuing explosion almost kills Schofield, but Blake manages to dig him out. They arrive at an abandoned farmhouse, where they witness a dogfight (an aerial battle). The German plane plunges into the farm and Schofield and Blake save the pilot from burning. Schofield proposes to mercy kill him, having severe injuries, but Blake has Schofield fetch water for the pilot. The pilot stabs Blake and is shot dead by Schofield, who comforts Blake as he dies, promising to complete the mission. Schofield is picked up by a passing British unit, led by Captain Smith (Mark Strong). A destroyed bridge near the bombed-out village, coust-Saint-Mein, prevents lorries from crossing. So, Schofield crosses the remnants of the bridge alone. A German sniper across the river in an abandoned house tries to attack him. Schofield tracks down and kills the sniper, only to be knocked out by a ricocheting bullet. It is night when Schofield regains consciousness. He walks through the nearby ruins, when he is spotted by and fired at by a German soldier. Schofield stumbles into the hiding place of a French woman with a baby. She treats his wounds, and he gives her his canned food and his canteen filled with milk from the farm. Schofield leaves and is again spotted by two German soldiers. He strangles one and pushes the one that is too inebriated to stop him. Other soldiers chase him, but he escapes by jumping into a river. Schofield reaches the Battalion as the British attack is due to begin. He fails to stop the start of the attack, so he sprints across the battlefield, after realising that the trenches are too full of soldiers for him to make it to the commander in time. He forces his way into meeting Colonel Mackenzie (Benedict Cumberbatch) and shows the letter, and the attack is called off. Schofield then locates Joseph, who was among the first attacking wave but is unhurt, and delivers the news of Blake's death. Joseph is upset but thanks Schofield for his efforts. Schofield asks to write to Blake's mother to tell her about Blake's heroics, to which Joseph agrees. Schofield walks away and rests under a nearby tree. It ends with Schofield looking at photos of his loved ones, his two young daughters and a wife at home. Also starring Spectre's Andrew Scott as Lieutenant Leslie, Plus One's Daniel Mays as Sergeant Sanders, Killing Eve's Adrian Scarborough as Major Hepburn, Richard McCabe as Colonel Collins and Billy Postlethwaite, Pete's son as NCO Harvey. The cast are all impressive, the locations, costumes and period detail are authentic and fantastic, but it is the direction by Mendes, camerawork and choreography that deserves the most praise. Movies like Rope, Silent House, and Birdman have used the "one shot" technique, filming continuously for long periods, and making near-unnoticeable edits, apart from the obvious fade to black, it is almost impossible to spot the edits, it really plunges the viewer into brutality and horror of the war, a moving, effective and and breathlessly immersive epic war drama. It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Visual Effects, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture of the Year, Best Original Screenplay for Sam Mendes and Krysty Wilson-Cairns, Best Makeup and Hairstyling, Best Production Design, Best Music (Original Score) for Thomas Newman, and Best Sound Editing, it won the BAFTAs for Best Film, Outstanding British Film of the Year, Best Cinematography, Best Production Design, Best Sound, and Best Special Visual Effects, and it was nominated for Original Music, and Best Make Up/Hair, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, and it was nominated Best Original Score. Outstanding!
1917 is like playing or watching video games. No big talks it might be the greatest war journey u have been to since Apocalypse Now(1979) not comparing them but i haven't seen any war movie till now that can beat Apocalypse Now 1917 didn't beat Apocalypse now but it surely became one of the greatest technical achievement Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins really pull this new technique 1 cut.
Just saw this film, and I have to say that it was visually stunning. As far as winning in the the Oscar for best cinematography, this film sould walk away with it hands down. The casting and acting was definitely top notch as well.
The only thing that made me twinge just a bit was the character of Blake, (played superbly by Dean-Charles Chapman). I found his character, while noble and brave, to be extremely naive. From his almost over zealous additude towards going into enemy territory, to his foolish empathy towards the enemy which eventually cost him his life- in the most careless way possible. The character seemed unfinished, perhaps a bit too young, which is probably what the writers intended.
Otherwise a great war film.
1917 is nothing short of a technical masterclass and I'm really glad I got to see it before the Oscars. Roger Deakins cinematography mixed with an excellent score and terrific acting easily makes it one of the big fishes of 2019. Sam Mendes helming direction yet again proving why he is one of the best man still working.The movie has tons of big names but in very small roles and its totally fine. The relative newcomers Dean Chapman and George Mckay were truly show stealers. This could've easily been a war movie with just great visuals, instead it is a war movie with fantastic acting and a simplified plot. The plot is basically conveying a message to a battalion to stop the march. But what it lacks in plot depth it makes up with its luscious screenplay and extremely fitting sets and settings. The bleak visuals, a gloomy patch of grey and straw all builds the already neck high tension and keeps alleviating it.The suspense is just too much at times, the characters do get breaks but when it gets serious its almost heartpounding. The deafening score highly contributes to the increasing tension and it doesn't shy away from occasional surprises. I do have to say a few words about how it was shot. It was sort of edited to be one shot and although at times it doesn't add anything to the storytelling and strains your eye on the constant panning, it does infact grow on you and get you hooked in no time. Truly marvelous editing right there.All in all 1917 can and should easily grab a few of the Oscars and definitely make things a lot harder for the other nominees, that should be enough reason to give it a try before making your prediction list.RATING: 9/10
After the disappointment of Dunkirk I was nervously looking forward to seeing 1917 and thankfully on this occasion the wait was well worth it.The cinematography is just mesmerising, it truly makes you feel as if you are there filming the whole series of events yourself.There's a solid storyline, superb acting and great pacing that made the nearly 2 hours in the cinema literally fly by.Go and see it, you won't be disappointed especially if you have an IMAX near you!
This film is a masterpiece, pure and simple. Reminiscent of Gallipoli in its plot, but much more intense. I felt the ending was a tad disappointing, and it had a few oddities (doesn't ink run when paper gets soaked?). But it was otherwise powerful and beautiful.
I went into this movie wondering why we possibly needed another war film. It is a fair question, especially since this movie does not really bother with deeper philosophical examinations of war, and the story is a bit cliche at points. But Mendes and Deakins accomplished something truly different - I felt like I was in the trenches with the characters, and the journey was absolutely riveting. From the very first moment, the story grabbed me and barely let me breathe. I walked out ready for a drink and a nap. I also have zero idea how they made this movie (the camera shots defied all laws of physics). That said, I am glad they did.
This movie is a Masterpiece. The one shot concept worked very well as you feel like you are there with them and somewhat sharing in the experience. Sam Mendes and the rest of the cast and crew really did a marvelous job with this piece of art.
Impressively filmed, the movie's staging, set design, lighting, cinematography and choreographed action sequences are all top notch and deserving of recognition. I should mention the soundtrack as well, which complements the story as two young soldiers progress their way through No Man's land to deliver an urgent message to a distant unit that faces annihilation. The film makers wisely selected two relatively lesser know actors for the film's protagonists so that celebrity wouldn't get in the way of the story. I was somewhat surprised that Dean-Charles Chapman, portraying Lance Corporal Blake, didn't make it to the end of the movie. His death before mid-picture left Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) the unenviable task of making his way alone across enemy held territory to complete an almost impossible mission. Among a number of astonishing scenes, I was most impressed with the German plane crash that came within inches of claiming the lives of both men. Though the picture claims it's status as being filmed in one continuous tracking shot, there appear at least one or two instances where that might not have been the case, one in particular being quite obvious, even if masked rather well. Even so, the technique may very well earn Sam Mendes the Best Directing Oscar, along with Cinematography and Production Design. The trenches and battleground scenes are particularly impressive, especially near the finale in which the British unit prepares for it's assault. In any case, the picture stands as a worthy achievement in film making, and is especially recommended.
WWI is my favorite war. I've read a dozen books about the air war in particular but despite knowing a lot about it all it's always been difficult to imagine what the ground war was like. No more. This visualization is so detailed and convincing, I feel I was there.Add flawless acting and a plausible story and you have the one war movie I've been able to get my wife to watch and actually praise.
This film really surprised me. I don't want to spoil the film for anyone who hasn't seen this yet. It's got great pacing and great music when needed. Every character compliments each other well. As the characters don't talk that much and there is more depth with the expressions and actions. An absolute masterpiece. Definitely recommend 10/10 best film of the year
But my god, I'm a fan of this. Absolutey genius. I can't remember the last time a film held my concentration as much as 1917 did.
Thoroughly job well done to everyone involved.
Saw it last night and loved it. It was so natural and beautiful. Felt like I was there on the field. Beautiful direction by Sam Mendes.
1918 is a remarkable piece of film making. Stunning. When the credits started instead of jumping up out of my seat, I had to collect my thoughts. The story telling, acting, visual continuous shooting totally absorb me. I sat and reflected on the insanity the 1st world war was to how good film making can get to your soul. Films of this outstanding quality are meant only for the big screen .
This is a solid movie. It does not squirm away from the horrors of war... Nailbiter, couldn't breath, edge of your seat fantastic movie!!
Was looking at other reviews and so someone write: don't listen to the critics who say the movie is boring. THIS movie is beautifully done, tense, and well paced. Please watch jt
Seen a screening of this tonight & was locked in from the start.While I'm not a fan of War Films as such but this one was well done & a great watch surprisingly.The film follows 2 soldiers who are crossing enemy lines to deliver a message in the first World War. However, their task is far from easy & plain sailing as they encounter many dangers ahead of them.I found the film to be quite enjoyable. You felt the suspence as you watched because the film was edited in a way to appear as if you're with the soldiers on their perilous journey.Not a bad film & actually one of the best War Films out there.9/10
My review of 1917.In short you must see this film. I don't say this because I have a passing interest in World War 1 nor because I think war is good. No. See this because it highlights extremely accurately a war that now only lives in silent black and white, distant documentary or the written word. It highlights is terror, sadness and pointlessness.Now there are some inaccuracies which manly focus on geography but I won't dwell on them as to point it out and spoil it. If you know Northern France it's obvious.On the matter of mud, of course the whole of World War 1 was fought in the wet and mud even in high summer (a common misconception) the majority of the film is mud free and this is accurate. The chalk pit of guns and chalk tunnels are also near identical to the same areas found in France today.The inital trench scene and crossing into No Mans Land is, I would say, perfectly represented. You can almost smell death. Google images of No Mans Land or trenches after an attack after you have seen the film to appreciate how well it has been created. That is how hundreds of square miles of France and Belgium looked.Note the difference between the British frontline and the German frontline at the start. Well thought out.The camera work is second to none. The characters portray the stress and tension of war extremely well. And given there are few characters it is remarkable that this is acheived.The score never over powers and adds when there is little or no dialog.The relationship between the two main characters, I think, doesn't go to set out and be the focus. The get on as they have been through so much and are just trying to survive. The rescue of the German pilot isn't discussed as to whether they should help the enemy on war morals; they rescue him as they don't want to a man suffer and try to do their best for him.The final scene of men going over the top and the running Schofield can be considered epic and a cinematic master piece. You feel every explosion and every frustration.Thought this maybe a controversial to say, we finally have a war film that does not portray US troops in any theater or war or big name US actors in lead roles. No cigar chomping. No cliched story of a loved one back home. No bravado. No satisfactory ending.It is a true to life (with some Hollywood) war film that covers a relatively little known period of Britians Great War effort (compared to say the Somme or Ypres). It has been filmed with care but does not shy away from the filth and terror and showing terrible injuries that come to mind when remembering the 14-18 conflict.It is worth seeing and then exploring what happened in 1917 as thankfully the film does not set out to educate in this way.
I've always been a fan of war films. They're not my favorite genre and I haven't seen all of them but I've seen all the classics.Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, Saving Private Ryan etc. World War 1, 2 movies seem to be popular at the moment. It's a subject that hits home to a lot of brits and especially men around my age who are shocked to see how those boys went through hell.After seeing a short trailer for this film I knew it was a "must see". I'd seen Christopher Nolan's "Dunkirk" which was absolutely brilliant. And I got the same feeling after seeing the trailer for this film.After playing a round of minigolf with my sisters boyfriend we got a takeaway from Nandos and ate our food in the IMAX. We sat at the front of the cinema and were both blown away by the amazing story/cinematography and acting from this entire film.Sam Mendes is an excellent director. I loved Jarhead and this was even better. You're so immersed in the action and you feel like you're on a mission with the boys. The music is fantastic and overall just a brilliant movie.Can not stress enough how much you need to see this in IMAX
I saw it and it was great! i recommend it for everyone, even if you are not interested a lot in the topic
I'm really amazed at how they shot the movie ... I'm speechless.. this is definitely a 10/10
Best movie since 2014 's Interstellar
If you are considering going to see this movie in the cinema, do it. This film will no doubt be a classic and is in the same league, if not better, than 'Saving Private Ryan'. The one-shot cinematography of this movie allows the viewer to be fully engaged and contains a rollercoaster of emotions until the very end.
For me this was the best movie. The camera work, the sound, the story and all the emotions with it. This is now my new favourite
I don't normally gush about films, but "1917" is a singular masterpiece of cinema, which draws you into the action, the drama, the tragedy, the bleakness and the beauty. It never cuts away. It takes you on a journey into one day of the Great War, to witness the quiet and simply stated heroism of those who lived through the War. "1917" isn't so much a war film as it is a gripping and immersive experience, which holds onto you until the very end. It is the best film I've seen in years.
I can't describe in words how deeply impactful this film is (through the one-shot filming, the actors, the sets, costuming, locations). The soundtrack composed by Thomas Newman will have tears streaming down your face by the time the movie is over! You will cry at least three times if you have ANY emotion at all!
There's a reason this film won two Golden Globes and was nominated for nine BAFTA awards. This film truly does not go unseen in detail. Showing the true horrors and traumas of WWI, this film is unnatural in its beauty. Brilliant brilliant brilliant! GO SEE THIS RIGHT NOW!
A must see, It felt as war should, horrible and devastating however in the way it was told with such natural flow there was no feel at all as if it were being told through a screen or at any point felt unrealistic. For what this was, a story it was beautiful, I couldn't spot any single use of cgi anywhere or at any point a facade, all was built in depth character and set alike. These two contrasts of the horror of war and the amazing delicacy in which it was told, to parallel opposites, married in to two, creating a perfect night out of thrill and suspense.
The only downfall I found was it didn't have a killer piece of music (the music was great), Hymn to the fallen to be precise, but then again in war you don't have those such soundtracks (if you're lucky you may get the bagpipes when about to go over)."The truth untold the pity of war"We will remember them.
I always would think to myself that if I were in the shoes of the men that fought and died for us during the first and second World War's, I would've been one of the brave ones. Someone that would've charged out of a trench or a foxhole without hesitation to take down the enemy. Someone that would instantly lay down his life so others could live on. This film really makes me think twice about what I would've done in those horrid times. As this is the finest example of a military related film I have seen in the last 22 years, you feel like you are there along side those unfortunate souls standing in the trenches. Its terrifying. There were 4 moments in particular where I found myself not being able to take a breath, frozen in fear of what was going to happen next. This is all thanks to the GOAT himself, Roger Deakins. If he doesn't pick up his second academy award this year i'm going to petition it as a crime against humanity. This movie is complex on so many other levels though. The set design is astounding. Another oscar i'm sure this film will pick up. Directing was top notch (I admit i had my doubts about Sam Mendes because of Spectre but he has completely redeemed himself on every level) and I can see Medes picking up his first oscar this year. If you're a person that loves military films like myself, you'll love this movie. If you're a person that hates military films, you'll still love this movie. It definitely leans more to the side of anti-war, as I don't think anyone can say the events that transpired during the 19-teens had any bit of positivity after viewing this film. Death and destruction is what you'll see unfold before you instead of bonds being made between men like most war films showcase. I can't wait to go see this film again. I doubt were going to receive a WWI piece like this again anytime soon.
This was a great movie which lived up to the hype... mainly based upon the single continuous shot technique which puts you right there with the action. The staging and journey of the film makes it gripping, engaging and almost relentless. Sam Mendes deserves the praise for this unique directorial approach.The only criticism is the rather lame way that each of its top billed cast are introduced to the audience in identical fashion.Benedict Cumberbatch, Daniel Mays, Mark Strong and Colin Firth all have bit parts but appear from the back or slightly out of shot until you get the reveal ... it makes you want to wait for a someone to grab an arm from a trench and on the end of it is.... wait for it... drum roll... that bloke off of The Greatest Showman (he isn't in it by the way).Otherwise great casting and cinematography and a really good cast of extras. Certainly a must watch movie. Probably more of a 12A than a 15 but there is a bit of gore. My 13 year old daughter liked it and learned something about the pathos of WW1
War is a horrible act, there is no escaping that. Films have depicted that for a number of years, many making sure they capture the true horror of war for all to see. With 1917, Sam Mendes delivers a war film like nothing I've ever seen before, throwing the audience right on the frontline with a truly immersive experience.Two young British soldiers during the First World War are given an impossible mission: deliver a message deep in enemy territory that will stop 1,600 men, and one of the soldiers' brothers, from walking straight into a deadly trap.1917 is a feat of filmmaking within the war genre, filmed to look like one continuous take, and it may just be the best film from Sam Mendes yet. The long take can be quite gimmicky however, its use here aids the storytelling in such a way that you can't help but feel as if you're in the middle of the war yourself. You're there with the two young soldiers, whether it be cautiously crossing No Man's Land or running from enemy troops, up close and personal throughout, and it's just such a relentlessly thrilling film that left me breathless by the end.The camerawork in 1917 is utterly stunning, Roger Deakins proving once again just how much of a genius he really is. The closeness of it all lets us get to know just who these men are and what exactly is it they are fighting for, all while portraying just how suffocating war can be with some exhilarating yet anxiety inducing set-pieces. Accompany that with Thomas Newman's beautiful score and 1917 becomes an even more powerful beast, the soaring crescendo towards the end in particular hitting me with a wave of emotion.1917 may be technical marvel but it wouldn't be anything without the two lead performances, George MacKay in particular. Both he and Dean-Charles Chapman make this a story to really care about as they deliver performances of both bravery and fear, the latter making this quite a tough watch at times. Other than these two, 1917 is a who's who of major British talent making up the numbers, Mark Strong being the one I just know had to make an appearance.It's only January but I doubt many films will come close to topping 1917 in 2020, a true masterpiece that will no doubt be a future classic. I would certainly be happy with this walking away with Best Picture at the Academy Awards and for George MacKay to be getting a Best Actor nod for his great work here.
Just an amazing film all together, highly recommend watching in IMAX.
Best of the highly-acclaimed movies I've seen of the year. Great scenery, photography, story, emotion, sound, and acting.
Wow, just wow!
Saw this film last night and I've been raving about it since. It is so unique in the way it has been shot, seemingly as one continuous shot so you really feel as though you are in the trenches with the characters. It is incredibly emotionally and I was on the verge of tears several times. I also jumped several times during some very tense moments. The cameos from several famous British faces are not distracting as some critics have claimed and you feel mild relief during these moments as if you have seen a familiar face.
The two leads are very good but it is the outstanding direction that makes this the best war film I've seen. The set pieces are almost beautiful at times (strange to say about a war film I know). There are two sequences in particular that my mouth dropped open watching for the visual effects alone.
I could not recommend this more and it certainly deserves the awards it is getting.
There were no cut scenes it felt like one big amazing plot. Just terrific! Good way to start the year.
If you're ever in the mood to watch a war film, there's an over-abundance of them throughout history. You can almost always find one that you haven't seen before. For this reason alone, I find myself being very cautious when one is about to get a wide release. With recent releases like Hacksaw Ridge or Dunkirk, my faith in the genre is always rejuvenated. Well, 1917 is yet another war film to come along and surprise me. For all the technical reasons to love this film on top of the powerful story itself, here's why I believe 1917 is one of 2019s very best films.The premise is nice and simple. Two young soldiers are given the task of sneaking through enemy lines in order to deliver a message to their commander, which will, in turn, save thousands of lives if received in time. This premise makes for a very tense ride. On top of being an engaging story, this movie is filmed in such a way that it makes it feel like one continuous take, for the most part, which ultimately begs the core actors to deliver the performances of their career.Although I've seen him in great films like Captain Fantastic and Pride, George MacKay never really stood out to me as award-worthy, but I stand corrected. This may very well be the best performance he ever gives, but that's not a negative, because I'll always remember him for this role. Alongside him is Dean-Charles Chapman, who I've also liked in Game of Thrones and Blinded by the Light, so I knew to expect a solid performance from him. With that said, he also delivers one of the better performances I've seen in 2019, simply due to the devotion he has to his character.Now, this would absolutely be an incomplete review if I forgot to bring up how incredible the technical aspects of this film are. Roger Deakins is basically a god in the cinematography world, so his work astounds me every single time he brings his vision to a project, and 1917 is no exception to that. The way this camera seamlessly follows these actors in and out of small or big sequences was simply astonishing. Layered on top of this jaw-dropping cinematography is the superb score by Thomas Newman. The combination of being swept up in these performances, caring about the story, being impressed by the camerawork, and then finally being moved by how well the music was composed for each scene, I found it very difficult to criticize anything here.Overall, 1917 deserves a standing ovation for the technical aspects, but I would be remiss if I didn't mention the fact that this movie also wouldn't have been as good as it is without the careful direction by Sam Mendes. Between his work on American Beauty or Skyfall, it should come as no surprise that he would make a great film, but the crew around him took it to another level in my opinion. I was sucked in from start to finish and the two-hour run time flew by. I can't recommend this film enough. Easily one of my favourite films of 2019.
The cinematography is outstanding, as everyone says.
Never spoke a word to friend all through movie.
Simple last scene did it for me when he turned wife's photo over to reveal her message, only someone who has served in danger can truly appreciate that.
1917 is a breathtaking feat. Filmed and edited to appear as a single tracking shot throughout, 1917 is a skillfully crafted powerhouse of suspense and emotion that poetically captures the stress and eeriness of trench warfare with engaging performances and gritty production design all around. Heart-pounding and technically superb.
One of the most immersive movie experiences out there. The one shot style of the movie makes you feel like you're right there with the main characters the whole time. I loved paying attention to what was happening around the characters such as the men in the trenches, the war grazed environments, the dead bodies and the rats. All of this combines for a visual masterpiece, a very visceral film. Dont compare this movie to the action-driven war movies of Hollywood. This is a very different style of war film, it's more of a survival/thriller/horror and it's quite the ride!
This is a masterclass in how to make a movie. The subject is difficult; most people are turned off by the horror of the First World War. But this film captures the realism with superbly portrayed characters whilst maintaining a fast moving storyline. The choice of the German retreat at the end of the First Somme was inspired (I was expecting 1917 to mean Passchendaele - it usually does). The particular incidents accord with accounts which I have read.This is the first film in a long time which I would have wanted to go back and see again.Excellent.
I saw this movie yesterday and it is breathtaking. The camera work from 14 times Academy Award nominee cinematographer Rodger Deakins (Blade Runner 2049) is outstanding and yet reminds of Private Ryan it surpasses it without the gory details but still puts you on the edge of your seat. It is a movie that you can connect with either if you have been in the army or not because it is a movie for all. It is a message, it is a wake-up call for the atrocities of war, and this is a war that happens now, in front of your eyes. The camera is so strong that it has some kind of documental feel that evokes some frames of Peter Jackson's "They Shall Not Grow Old" from 2018 where he puts never-before-seen footage to commemorate the centennial of the end of the war.Someone has said that that the war movies should not be glorified with a soundtrack but what a soundtrack this movie has! My ow my. I just want to mention one name here: Thomas Newman.Another interesting fact. In this movie, you cannot feel the special effects. It is for the first time that I am not feeling tricked by any CGI or computer gimmicks. Whatever they used here they used it wisely without breaking the balance between cinema and documentary and the final result is mesmerizing. It a disorientating, captivating, .It was filmed and edited as if it was one long take and the camera never leaves our main protagonists, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay), out of its sight. The plot is rather simple: you follow two young soldiers ordered to deliver a message which will save 1,600 other soldiers.It is a second war movie from Sam Mendes after Jarhead and it deserves special recognition from the movie industry. It is a movie to be talked about in the future because of its authenticity and the special message that it contains
Sorry. Me and my brother said this movie was boring for us.
Walking in just 2 minutes from an unscaved green scenery to a frontline trench?
There wasn't any such scenery within 10 miles of the front.
It would take a full day on foot to get that kind of difference in scenery, in 1917!Generals in a frontline trench?
Generals that knew who's brother was where at the front line?
Generals that get regular privates pulled for a message running duty, when they had dedicated message runners in WW1?It's absolute nonsense.
Boring, over rated, slow, no action, no memorable lines, mediocre acting, predictable plot, the only good thing is the cinematography. Wait till it is on your streaming service.
Thus movie totally sucks. It tries to compensate a good and colourfull story with cool effects(as allot of movues coming out recently). The dialog is horrible, allot of time during the movie you can sense that they are dragging the scene out unnecessarily. Plus everybody has anadditude and a super typical character, like a comedy almost! And as soon as whichever character is on film they really take their tine to add unnecessary overly acting manners! Very overly acted, not unlike a stage play, overly dramatic, bombastic acting not suited for a movie. The music trying to give weight to a scene is also done terribly. Very uneasy feeling overal to the movie, it drags you out of the story in the way how dumb some dialog was. Also, why did the main character try to lIft his ingured friend TWO F*$IN TIMES??? He could have done much more to save him!! Nice filming in the beginning filming the entirity of a ww1 battlefield, but that was it.
Total garbage fire.
A badly strung together set of ideas / scenes, where gritty reality should exist instead of over long sequences of men with weak expressions on their faces. The longer it went on the more daft it became. Emotional nonsense with none of the logical nouse that a real war gives its participants.
Very good sets but I was yawning half way through. the ending was the best bit (when it eventually finished). I'm obsessed with war history but struggled with this one :0( but they captured the look perfectly.
If you have seen Saving Private Ryan and practically any other war movie you will recognize all of these tropes:" No Good Deed Goes Unpunished" - after saving the life of an enemy combatant
"Language Barrier Encounter with a Female" - however she just happens to know enough English to convey her love
"The Combat Fatigued Soldier" - snivelling and crying , unable to lead men over the wall into battle
"Horrible Marksmanship by the Enemy" and its cousin "Pinpoint Marksmanship by the Hero"
"Gunshot Nicks and Grazes to the Hero Does Not Stop Him"I could go on,...but you get the point.Maybe I am too old and having seen nearly war movie, they are all starting to look the same.
Even though it was based on a true story, the storyline was not interesting at all amd it was very boring. Not a whole lot of dialog and a lot of dead moments
If you have patience to sit in a theater for a long, slow, meaningless dialogue movie, then this is your type. If you expect to see a movie with war scenes, the don't waste your time nor money. This is a very slow and boring movie, probably the worst war movie we ever seen, we just can't wait for it to end.
I'm so glad I saw this and that I saw it on the big screen. It was (I believe) a gruesomely realistic depiction of WWI. I feel that I now have a better understanding of what those combat soldiers experienced. The connection to the soldiers' journey was very much enhanced by the cinematography, but the collaboration of all the parts - the story, the direction, acting, editing, etc. - was all very well done. My humble opinion.
One of the best war films ever made . The acting the storyline everything about this film is top class . I can't recommend this film highly enough superb
Really great movie,storyline,narrative, acting very thing is just great
Thank you for everyone making absolutely amazing story
Masterpiece. Great acting, with no real big names in the leading part. The awards are so deserved.
This won't be long. I'm in awe. Probably the greatest war film I've ever seen. There are scenes in this movie that drew emotions from me that I was shocked to find. It will simultaneously show you the horrors of war and the scope of determination. A perfect film.
I hate war films, find them morbid and depressing. This one however from start to finish was amazing. I was glued to this all the way. The story is fantastic, made me cry a few times. You will not be disappointed. Acting is A******
The one shot style the movie was shot in combined with the great acting makes this a must-see movie. Historically accurate and the best movie in 2020 so far.
I love war movies and specially the one made with such details. I hope all wars end one day.
This movie is an intense journey of how the human drive to complete something you've set your heart and mind to can be accomplished, but not without it's loss and hardship. The film centers on a guy whose brother is part of a bigger division of 1600 men total who are walking into a trap on enemy lines. The "main" character is told he must deliver a message to save the men and call off the attack. He brings his friend Will, the actual main character along. You see the true experience and emotion of the whole film arguably through will even from the moment he enters the scene. He has been in past combat before and gives advice to the novice comrade but alas his cherry blossom mindset and rational gets him killed by trying to be compassionate in times of war. This movie pulls no punches in showing how real the world is and how war likely is and was then. Especially when characters give speeches about how orders are always changing and always coming. There will always be another fight and more dead. No matter what. Was it all pointless in the end? Maybe so. I love the poetic end of the film being like the beginning as well. The plethera of brithish actor cameos was a little distracting as well was the constant shot at times but at others it worked very well.
The movie that tells everything, Movie that make you cry. Movie with best visual effects. Congrats.
Go See this Movie!!! This Movie will leave your heart pumping and You will be Speechless.
Absolutely Mind blowing On what this movie sets for It,I was Speechless walking out of this movie,So If you don't have anything to do go See this Movie!!!
Superbly shot and edited. A beautiful film to watch. The film has suspense throughout and was throughly enoyable
As far as war movies go, this one is different. My only criticism might be the total lack of humor. As expected, It is certainly not a comedy, but lighthearted humor doesn't even come into the fray.I thought the seamless continuous shot might be a gimmick that would bridal the film (I don't really see the need to avoid edits), but for this film, it is very effective. It pulls you in with our main character and as the film progresses, so does the immersion and the tension. You really do feel like you are experiencing everything as a witness.On top of that, the cinematography is very ambitious....sometimes beautiful.There are metaphors of the contrasts between innocence and aggression. They are well done and poignant. The score is grandiose if not a bit over the top, but it will undoubtedly allow your tears to well.The acting is beyond reproach and the aftertaste is respect. We've all seen a lot of war movies. This one is less about bravado and more about humanity. Our hero is not the typical bad-ass, but rather a young man who is pretty much obliged against his instinct to complete a mission not only because he's following orders, but mostly for honor and his own soul. In that way, he becomes a hero.Well done with some memorable scenes I will likely never forget.
Let me start by saying this is a very good movie, just not great, and I will try to explain my point of view...
I went to watch this movie with some high expectations, seeking a quality as good as "Hacksaw Ridge (2016)".
It was not reached.
The cinematic experience of a "one shot" movie that Sam Mendes tried to give made me, at some points, bored of it. There's a lot of unnecessary moments portrayed at the movie, such as going through the trenches, because Sam Mendes did not achieved a quality script to fill the 2h lenght of the movie.
Sam Mendes said in a interview that he wanted to give the experience of 2 "real time" hours, but the development of the story is clearly more than that.
I yawned while seeing at the cinema... And I was not tired.
The moments of suspense/ thriller/ action don't overcome the rest of the movie.
If I made a homage like this, I would like people to tell me the truth and not sympathize with it just because...
The acting was very good and I enjoyed that Sam Mendes didn't gave the main characters to Hollywood stars. George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman made a great work
My honest rating for this movie is a 7.4.
Undeniably a great visual feast, especially the bombed out church, but someone seems to have forgotten the script. A lot of the speaking is very on the nose. This distracted from the feel of the film.But credit to Roger Deakins. He makes the film what it is. My recommendation is to look at the making of videos on YouTube, then watch the film. It will give you a greater understanding of the technical process of film production.
Extraordinary film.that really makes you feel you are in the middle of the trenches and the devastation of WW1. Superb photography throughout contrasting the beauty of the Normandy countryside in spring with the many corpses and wounded, endless mud, ruined villages and blasted trees etc. Good cast also though most of them only appeared briefly. The weakness is the script which in the opening exchanges between the 2 main characters seemed rather dull. However you are soon caught up on the amazing visual experience.
The one shot format is oddly experimental and takes a bit to get used to, but it's faultlessly done. Not sure it beats a regular edit though, as it can feel relentless. The story itself is believable and really gives a sense of the remarkable bravery shown by those envolved.
This movie was filmed brilliantly. Some of the best cinematography I've ever seen. I felt the movie didn't have enough of a storyline for best film of the year. But I do see the movie taking home an Oscar for cinematography.
At war, everything is beautiful
At war, every man has a perfect jawline
At war, everything is perfectly framed
At war, every landscape is breathtaking
At war, enemies always miss their sniper shots
At war, enemies only kill by stabbing
At war, you get shot at close range and survive
At war, when you are on the storytelling side, you are benevolent to your enemies
At war, flares are used to create an absolutely magical sense of artistry in shattered and ruined cities
At war, flower petals sail on a calm river
At war, a kind infantry boy sings in the woods to sooth your mind
At war, music peacefully stops when your heart stops beating and you give last breath
At war, luckily, you arrive right on time to deliver a retreat order
At war, luckily, you save hundreds of lives in extremis
Because, at war, your country cares about your life, and casualties are okay, I guess, only if Deakins frames them in order to get his Academy Award.
Because, for Mendes and Deakins, at war, you enroll for a hell of a ride!
The casting is really good the story is very basic but the cinematography is amazing.. I was tense the whole time when I was watching it... the music and the effects kept me hooked the whole movie although the story is basic and not complex.It's worth watching in IMAX
The GOAT cinematographer Roger Deakins is now just toying with us mere mortals. His latest film is one big flex, proving how a war movie can be shot to appear as one continuous shot. His photography is stunning and basically makes this movie what it is. Sam Mendes provides reliably great direction and Thomas Newman's terrific score is pulse-pounding and urgent. The unknown lead actors are excellent, as are their more famous counterparts. The main flaw of the film is the lack of substantial character development or plot. 1917 is definitely more of a technical achievement than a full-fledged masterpiece as some are claiming. However, the classic trifecta of Mendes, Deakins, and Newman continue to work their magic.
Saving Private Ryan, 30 Seconds over Tokyo, Patton, Inglorious Bastards, The Great Escape and Schindler's List are only a few of the countless movies about World War II that have been made. In fact, many are still made today. So why haven't there been a lot of movies about the first World War? I think it comes down to exactly what was being fought for and what it meant for everyone. Everyone can agree that Nazism is bad and running a nation as a dictatorship robs everyone of their freedom. Germany was a common enemy that everyone would want to fight, similar to a simple film's goal of good against evil.While World War I may have not had a simple enemy to get behind, it's still an important war as it collapsed several European empires, set the stage for a revolution in Russia, put the U.S. in a larger military position and unfortunately led to the deaths of millions. What movies can do is really put us in the position of those solders to see the magnitude of warfare and it's path of devastation. This may make 1917 one of the most intense movies to sit through, but an important one to witness.In the misty month of April in 1917, English soldiers are resting after seeing the Germans pulling back from the western front. Two solders, Blake (played by Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (played by George MacKay) are assigned to deliver a message to another Battalion. They receive more information from General Erinmore (played by Colin Firth), where they find out that the 2nd Battalion , which is assuming an easy victory, is about to walk into a deadly battle with most of the German offensive attacking there. With the phone lines cut, both Blake and Schofield are instructed to cross No Man's Land to find the Battalion and deliver a message to not attack.Plot wise, that's all you need to know about 1917. The rest of the movie follows these two men as they cross over the horror that is No Man's Land, abandoned German trenches and everything else that would scare any soldier crossing the lines. What separates this from a lot of other war movies is that the entire film is created to appear that everything is done in one continuous shot, never taking the perspective away from the main characters. This also includes time and light, depending whether it's day or night.Even with it's ambition, 1917 is still a phenomenal movie that's an experience that gave my heart a large rush. Director Sam Mendes (American Beauty, Skyfall) clearly wanted to give audiences the best way to experience the trenches and gunshots and did so through this one shot story. Birdman may have done something similar, but given how many extras and special effects went off, I would love to see a behind the scenes look at how everything was done. The cinematography pays a lot of detail to little things like the color of the sky during sunrise and how much paler skin would become after death.The story feels a lot like something out of theme park or a video game...and I mean that in a good way. You're aware that your watching someone else's experience , but the right angles do make you feel like you're a part of it. Where 1917 endures in the story is it's simple goal while going through several layers of warfare Hell. I could see this getting boring quick, but despite it's one shot goal, every scene still has a different look that never feels too familiar. The movie knows not to stop for too long unless it was for an important reason. It's a rush.Does this movie into the bigger political or social impact of World War I? No, but that was never the intention. It's like watching someone's small story that is large in scale. If I did have any problems is that there's a point where a character is knocked out and he's awoken. I won't say where, but it broke part of the spell that the movie put me in. You can tell it's a point where they were hiding an edit, but if the movie had a bunch of them in plain sight, you'd think they could have done better.I'll give this eight dogfight planes out of ten. Like a lot of war movies, this isn't a pleasant experience. It isn't supposed to be; it's meant to be a tool to really give you something that a lot of people have forgotten about as WWI movies aren't made a lot. I highly recommend this if your willing to see something that I can't say I could make myself.
That's it, that's the review. It's meant in the most complementary of ways. But yeah. Two young men are sent running towards, away from, over, under, around, and through enemy lines to save the lives of 1600 men doomed to charge headlong to their deaths. Throughout their harrowing mission is heartbreak and terror, success and setback. It's a film about survival and the extraordinary actions needed just to make it home.1917 is a technical masterpiece. Even those among you that are familiar and fans of the work of Emmanuel "Chivo" Lubezki must reckon with the GOAT-ness bubbling forth from this master class of cinematography from Roger Deakins. Immersive feels like an understatement. Throughout the film are examples of expert lighting, production design that is both grandiose and detailed all at once, and marathon shots meticulously choreographed.A razed French village illuminated solely by the glow of white phosphorus flairs. A brief respite and moment of humanity in a furnace lit basement. A palm-sweating journey into and through no mans land. This film's indelibility lies not in its story, but in its imagery.
First and foremost, the set designs and filming are superb. Saw the film in IMAX and that was intense, took the film to a whole other level. The one shot filming is different, but personally thought it helped the storyline and the urgency the characters were under. It isn't real herky jerky like other films I've seen where it's live action. The music accompanying several scenes was also extremely well done.If you're in the military, a veteran, or military enthusiast then yes you could probably poke holes in some of the scenes. The cinematography more than makes up for it though.The storyline is simple, maybe a little to simplistic for some, but I personally think it was done on purpose because of how the film is shot. It's basically a race against the clock, move across enemy territory, against terrible odds, and save massive loss of life. You aren't going to get a lot of extra details about the characters or what's led to the situation they are now in, its purely about the journey and what they have to overcome.For those who thought it was boring or slow not sure what movie was being watched. For most of the movie you're on pins and needles anticipating who or what is going to pop out from behind who knows what. This was a great movie, highly recommend.
So 2 guys are walking and an airplane crashed out of the sky and lands 5 feet away. they rescue the enemy pilot and he then kills the main protagonist?
these incredibly unlikely and dumb plot angles keep happening, like when a soldier puts a hand over an enemy's mouth telling him to be quiet - and then the guy doesnt.the storyline was totally unbelievable.
This movie is being shilled by the studio and producers. Any negative review is being brigaded. I liked American Beauty, but Mendes looks like the bully-type and they are probably sensitive since they have high profit-hopes for this to rebound after the GG. A 100 million dollar budget and the film only grossed about 2.5 million in the US..Questions:The camera work is awesome, but be warned this is not a great war movie. It's an average war movie with major flaws. The entire scenario isn't even sensical or plausible; like other people have said- if it was so important, why not fly a plane to reach them? Why weren't these two somewhat inexperienced soldiers protected and accompanied by at least a few more soldiers if it was so important? Why were the two soldiers so clean-cut and clean-shaven that they looked like female primadonnas in the middle of WWI? Why would they dumbly and naively try to save an enemy pilot without caution to the point one of them is stabbed (were they not trained properly in boot camp and the military?). Why are they so alone and isolated on the farm, but just so conveniently suddenly after the one of them dies, another battalion happens to show up immediately at that moment (for one-take, one-shot continuity, of course)? Why is the commander of the big battle so easy to reach by an unknown subordinate who hasn't proven to be trustworthy? Why is the soldier who prevails beyond the pilot saving scene so impervious to bullets and gunfire- is he Rambo or Commando? (He doesn't look like it). Why does it happen that the one little room he hides out in in the middle of such a horrific war has this perfectly made up young female with a baby in it (Oh and slap yourself in the head that you didn't think of it- yes, the milk he got from the farm is just so perfectly arranged to be used here; could you be manipulated for sentimentalism any more?). Why did the soldier who was chasing him just decide to give up when he jumped in the river? Why in the final scene are bombs landing all around him as he foolishly runs above the bunker, but he doesn't get a scratch on him? Why didn't the brother look anything like the other one, and why when he was told to look at the casualty area was the other brother perfectly unscathed?Again, the camera work is outstanding, acting suffices, but some of the scenes and writing is downright implausible and almost funny. Was there a GG sympathy award handed to this to help it at the box office or with viewership by giving it recognition or something? It's a decent movie, but other than cinematography, it's not award-worthy on that high of a level.
Masterpiece. Loved every second of it. The music, the pictures, the places. Brilliant. War cinema as it should be. Nothing more, nothing less. But if you want action film just don't watch it. It is drama, and it is the way all of the films about war should be.
Awesome movie from the beginning till the end , everything was great :
1) The music was intense and perfect with every scene
2) The acting was great
3) The movie was kinda emotional and it made me feel sad
4) Awesome and one of kind Story
5) The film shooting was The best and Gorgeous
6) This movie deserves all the nominees and winnings for the oscars
7) My rating for this Gorgeous and one of kind movie is : 9.0/10
This movie is absolutely breathtaking. From the first to the last frame it was just amazing to watch en the more I think about it, the more impressed i get. I didn't know what this movie is about and had no expectations, but from the first half hour i knew exactly that i was gonna love this movie.The first fifteen minutes are right into the movie and I needed to understand what they where going for. After they leave the safe area it becomes clear that this is not just an ordinary war movie. The movie is not about the story, but that doesn't mean that the story isn't interesting. It is a very simple plot, but so amazingly filmed that every single frame is interesting to look at. Once you get to the stressful situations, every minute of the movie is either tense or beautiful. Even the less tenser parts are nice, because you can breath for a second while also feeling emotions for the main character. Once the movie is coming to the end, the main character is feeling so many emotions for different reasons, but it all feels logical to the story.But the story isn't about the main plot. I wants you to feel like you are going on the journey with the protagonist and it all works. You feel the danger the characters are in and you feel the joy when their are making jokes with each other. You are not watching the movie, you are in the movie. and its all because of the way they shot it.
The filming impeccable, the acting was amazing and the story line which was based on a true truly breathtaking.
I would recommend anyone who hasn't seen it to go and watch it whilst it is still in cinema!
I was on the edge of my seat the entire time, and the oneshot aspect only added to the tense atmosphere.
Despite being an year stacked with amazing movies, none of them managed to touch me as emotionally as this movie did. Directed magnificently by Sam Mendes, 1917 engrosses you and keeps you at the edge of your seats from the very beginning as the tense atmosphere and a constant sense of danger are maintained throughout the movie. The characters are not portrayed as invincible heroes but as regular young men who are trapped in this situation, fighting a pointless war. The character development for the two main leads was done subtly but very effectively, with limited exposition. The performances by George Mackay and Dean Charles Chapman were top-notch and makes us really empathize with their characters. The cinematography by Roger Deakins was nothing short of breathtaking. The one-shot technique makes the experience much more immersive as we feel as if we are present there along with the characters. The score by Thomas Newman was phenomenal and helped to elevate the impact of several scenes. Another noteworthy aspect of the movie was its incredible production design, particularly the battlefield and the abandoned town, which showcases some of the most impressive set constructions of the year. The sound design was outstanding and further helped to convey the intensity of the situation.The focus is less on the battle and more on the suffering, destruction and loss caused by war. The soldiers in the movie themselves comment on the pointless and destructive nature of war. The incredible screenplay, direction and performances manage to present this theme in an emotionally impactful manner
...Much more than Dunkirk, 1917 feels like a compliment to Saving Private Ryan, and, if you'll pardon the obvious connection, a brother film to it. While Spielberg houses Saving Private Ryan in a groundbreaking, bombastic and terrifying shell to shock a reminder to the world of the sacrifices made in recent history to afford us our freedom and complacency, 1917 is a love letter to those who never gave up, and enlisted a purity of spirit to see their missions to their end. And like Saving Private Ryan, Sam Mendes does this with no less bravura and potency.In many ways, despite the comparisons, 1917 is the antithesis of Dunkirk, a film that is more of an exercise than a cinematic experience, one that strains the limits of its medium in a different way, a finely tuned watch turned out and rearranged in front of you, and with a sadistic and pervading intent to accost and unbalance you immediately and not let go until the final moments.1917, however, goes out of its way to show you the linearity and simplicity of its thrust; the trenches, such as they were designed to be, are the perfect proof of concept to get the audience on board and lulled to this new version of cinema presentation with the long takes. The film takes the time to show you the world through environmental storytelling (not the first time in this review I'll reference video games!) and whereas Gravity put its bland characters and dialogue front and centre, 1917 carefully uses the extra characters and dialogue as a subconscious layer or normality, to draw you in to a hypnotic trance as Deakins' camerawork and lighting slowly pulls out of the faces of the leads their grief or exhaustion, wracked with unimaginable thoughts we are blessed never to have to think.And as such, and due to its vibrant camera work and unstuffy photography, it doesn't feel twee or old at all. The approach of ensuring 1917 didn't feel rote or samey and instead feel exceptionally present and modern and human also allows it to be relatable and less of an archive document and more resonant to now.Many of Deakins' shots are incredible. In fact almost all of them are, not content with stitching multiple long takes together, Mendes/Deakins et al have crafted a million moving paintings. And the long takes are a thing of beauty; a few conveniently placed rocks or cuts to black in the cloth of someone's back notwithstanding, this is the absolute best I've seen this kind of technology and approach being used. It's a far cry from the awkward shoehorning of some of Birdman's obvious cuts and even pips Cuaron's Children of Men for most impactful use of long takes.This is most felt in moments of real loss. The camera, lingering there as we know it will, injected into me a deep sadness at the normality of death, the general lack of significance or theatricality. The acting then benefits greatly from these long takes, the characters feeling like they are ebbing and flowing physically and emotionally towards and away from us as if we're running to keep up with a busy friend, afraid we'll lose them. As they draw away they seem to emotionally retreat into themselves, and when we're gifted a close up, it's such a palpable and tacit moment that it eclipses theatre (the medium compared to 1917 most in early interviews) by proving us with the heartbreaking simplicity of looking into another's face. Mark Strong acts up a treat in the small part he's in and he's an enigmatic and welcome role and one that proves he can still act beyond generic villains with unconvincing American accents.1917 owes a great debt to video games; the walking simulator, the first person shooter and the stealth game. Certain moments feeling like they are ripped directly from video games; the tense barren walk listening for gunfire or footsteps, twitch finger on the trigger ready for when that enemy rounds the corner in Call of Duty, will you shoot or flee? Or those moments of respite and story in Metro, between the gunfire and struggle, as you wander through an enclave of survivors, or silently taking down an enemy as you spin the camera around to see if his mate can see you in his cone of vision. All these moments are fresh and immediate in a way that's missing from something like Dunkirk. However, I don't think that's the only reason for this, I think that using much more of a recognised first person perspective approach mirrors the diaries and letters and journals chronicling World War I and so 1917 manages to be authentic my borrowing from a very modern medium and arches backwards by reaching forwards.I'm intrigued why, besides in order to advance the timeline, that Mendes chose to put that single obvious cut in the film. And I'm not sure I liked or needed the subtitles, it pulled me right out of the experience and reminded me I was watching a film and it served little purpose, especially because the French was designed to be simple and he didn't really understand it anyway. I'm reminded of Polanski and his one regret with Chinatown when he wished he'd put the image on a camera lens upside down as it would have been in real life but for studio pressure he relented and put it the incorrect way for clarity. I wonder if Mendes would look back on this the same way.But that notwithstanding the film is close to flawless. And despite being half an hour longer than Dunkirk, it doesn't feel it and I wouldn't have taken anything out. Interestingly it must have been tight and bold screenplay to allow for almost no wiggle room and little retiming. I guess that's Mendes' theatre experience kicking in. The film is full of little moments but they are the most meaningful parts. In some slim ways I thought Tarkovsky may be proud of it, and I had partial and welcome Stalker and Andrei Rublev flashbacks.The film is essentially about you and this soldier. And how much you really connect with him is a testament to how earned and fist-pumping the more (brief) saccharine moments are. There's a close up towards the end of the film and I felt as if I could read the characters mind and I was completely urging him to make the decision I knew he would make anyway. That's powerful stuff and a feeling I never really get in cinema very much anymore.Those moments are swept up, bolstered, underscored or otherwise lifted by Thomas Newman's incredible score. Newman, not a stranger to iconic, recognisable and listen-to-able scores manages to do the impossible (for him) and creates a powerful score that doesn't immediately sound like his work. It's a score that tells all that's missing in a scene without the film having to resort to exposition. It's not an an obvious score until it wants to be. And it's a world away from Zimmer's now predictable cacophony even though it sometimes scantily resembles it in places.There was a moment in the film, a very deliberate moment of drama and arch-power when I realised what an aural and visual treat this movie was. It was like being on the stage of an opera; it was grandiose and energetic and flamboyant and iconic and at the centre was this small figure running through what for many could have been their afterlife. This "afterlife" moment felt like adrenaline itself; not shock, just awe; danger, fragility, beauty and purity. I have never wanted a moment in a movie, without realising it, more. It was cinematic bliss. Good job 1917. My day started and I was at work. But by the end of it, I was exactly where I wanted to be.
Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins especially have truly out done themselves here.
The actors performances very natural, amazing cinematography, realistic locations, beautiful score and a true front line war experience, this movie truly lived up the hyped and is the next best movie since Hacksaw Ridge was released a couple years ago.As much as this was a war movie, I would say it is actually an action/journey adventure film since it's not about combat itself but a mission and the experience we go through with the protagonist.This is the type of movie Dunkirk should have been as Dunkirk was a huge disappointment.If you want a movie experience in the likes of The Revenant and a war genre film, make sure to watch this!!!
This film is not really about war, but the soldiers that were in it. The film focuses on a soldiers journey through enemy territory to warn soldiers on the front line not to advance into a trap.It really takes you on a journey of friendship and loyalty. Most of these men were very young, in their teens. It's a brilliant well thought out story that will touch every person whom has a heart.I hope we never have to face another was like this. Our young men and women should live life with much happiness whilst we are free to do so.God bless the young men on both sides of the war whom fought for their country and was just doing their duty. Remember they all had families whom loved them as they loved theirs.
With all the noise that critics made for this movie I had to see it, and let me tell you upfront, I got a bit dissapointed.Don't get me wrong, this is a good movie. It has great acting and the continuous shoot provides a fresh technical aspect, but all in all it's a story we have already seen (in one form or the other). The pace lets no room for character development, so you don't get to actually care for them, which I think is important in this kind of movie.Would I recommend it? Probably. Would I see it again? I doubt it.
I sometimes fear we're running out of stuff to do with the War Movie; this is a genre particularly prone to redundancy and clich. But with 1917, Sam Mendes aspires to do for World War I what Spielberg did for II, creating a sort of complete immersion that never lets us disconnect from the ever-threatening wartime setting. This is largely due to the presentation; the entire movie looks like one long, uninterrupted shot!Of course, the film isn't truly done in one take, instead creating the illusion of it with editing and effects like those of Birdman. There have been genuine attempts at a one-shot movie (like Utya, Russian Ark, and Victoria), but they came with the hiccups that will inevitably arise when one tries to do live theater plus shifting locations plus special effects plus a purposely limited camera crew. And of course, many of Andy Warhol's "films" were technically done in one take. It needn't always be an impressive thing to do.1917, however, is quite impressively made, even when you can deduce where it hides its cuts and gives the cast and crew a well-deserved break. As mentioned, we still feel wholly trapped in the setting, which is both due to the lack of cuts and the fact that we view the world-shaking horrors exclusively from the point-of-view of two British soldiers (George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman), sent on a suicide mission to deliver one simple message.Problems arise when we reach the film's slower moments, which aren't made that much more admirable on a technical level just because the actors converse in an uninterrupted session (even during the purely "talky" and small-scale bits, Birdman had more directing going on in its lengthy takes). Granted, these moments are some of the film's most human, supplying a somber breather in-between busy trenches, suspenseful action, and horrific, squalid battle sites.The most popular complaint seems to be of Thomas Newman's music, which can be overbearing and, rather than enhancing the emotions, damage scenes that would've been more powerful, immersive, and intense without it; I only partly agree. Another complaint is mainly popular on Film Twitter (my favorite place), where people sincerely question why we still make movies about the World Wars - which, in spite of what I said about irritating war film clichs, isn't exactly the sort of tacit celebration of historical ignorance I wish to humor.A few of the inevitable cuts are pretty obvious too (one is willfully obvious, creating an intermission point in the very middle), even attempting to merge two shots with slight but noticeable differences in lighting. But there is still so much to admire in terms of special effects, coordination, camera movement, production design, and indeed, the effective use of lighting (especially in a scene where threatening ruins are lit exclusively by a flare) that it doesn't matter much. Much of the time, the execution lives up to Mendes' ambition.Our leads also carry the film nicely; they work as focal characters on top of sharing genuine history and chemistry, as we also admire their devotion. Perhaps celebrity cameos like those of Colin Firth and Benedict Cumberbatch will distract from the realism and immersion, but this will hardly be true of every viewer. I conclude that this is a pretty damn good film overall and that it should at the very least win some techies this Sunday. I won't go for my highest rating (my #KeepingUpWithTheOscars fave remains Little Women and Parasite remains by Best Picture vote), but I sincerely believe that - with the climactic shot of Lance Corporal William Schofield running alongside the Pas-de-Calais trench as the final attack breaks loose around him, driven only by his devotion to the mission - Mendes has created one of the most iconic sequences of our age's cinema.Finally, on the note of historical accuracy, you may not need to worry so much with this one. 1917 isn't based on any particular event within World War I, instead dramatizing a tale Mendes' grandfather used to tell him and his siblings. Thus, we can't be sure 1917 is based on a true story at all. You know what grandpas can be like.
Im really happy that there are still good movies in the making! I always liked war movies for some reason but I thought I've seen them all. This one is different! there is so much emotion and good character development sometimes you forget you are watching a war movie! the cast was good and the cinematography was perfect! the way this movie was shouted deserved a price. Some scenes remember me to the classic movie drom Pink Floyd The Wall which took place on the 1th WW.
I went to see this movie with my 12 year soon and he told me at the end this was the best movie he ever saw! I can understand for him at his age. This was a really good start!
It was a perfect father and soon moment!
Bests film in last 5 years. Fantastic camera and so emotional
And filmed as one shot which means that the action time is almost the same as the projection one. The story is simple but very exciting. In World Wat I it happened that two British soldiers in France are assigned by their general to deliver a message to the colonel commander of a battalion a few miles away who is planning an attack to German positions to profit from German army withdrawal. However this message urges the colonel to stop the attack since the supposed withdrawal of German forces is feigned and intends no more than attracting the British troops to a trap where 1,600 British would be killed. This message is needed because the phone lines had been cut by the Germans. The two men must cross a no man's land to get to the Colonel's battalion. During their journey they are fired at more than once by dispersed German soldiers and that is filmed and shown in admirable images and sequences using often great plans in every detail. The actor's performance is also great. One of the best movies of 2019.
This movie had me go through a roller-coaster of emotions like nothing else. There were scenes where I was tearing up, there were moments where I was so mesmerized by the sequences, esp. the one where Schofield wakes up and walks into the night illuminated by flares, that I forgot about what was to happen next. The use of scenery and elements of nature such as the fence which ends up hurting Will, the sequence in the stream are all used quite well so much so that they become a part of the narrative. The scene where Schofield walks into the night among the ruins, is definitely one of the best I've ever seen.In today's age and time where movies and shows are brought exclusively to your computers and TV, this remains one of those movies which need to be experienced in the cinema hall. Kudos to Sam Mendes, Roger Deakins and Thomas Newman for this show. One of my top war films along the likes of 'Come and See' and 'The Grand Illusion'.
1917 is British director Sam Mendes' latest opus. I also believe that it is the next Best Picture, and that he is worthy of his second Academy Award statuette for directing.Watching this movie, it is simply an experience. The mind blowing cinematography, the chilling atmospheric music and the bleak sets really transport you to the Western Front, the 6th of April, 1917. You're there, in those trenches.1917 absorbed me, like few movies had ever done before. I was hooked, and I think I only took my eyes off the screen about three times. I am not even the greatest fan of war movies (the big exception being Apocalypse Now), but 1917 is just so bloody good. If you are however, just drop everything you are doing, get a ticket, and watch this movie. You will love it.8/10
A movie that excels in all areas.Technically- visually amazing. The one shot camera works really well for 98% of the film (only missing on some fairly important reaction shots), it especially helps during scenes of tension. Lighting is done really well considering the work arounds they had to go though, and there's one scene where they use creative lighting to create the most spectacular images. Sound is amazing too, my first watch through I barely noticed it as it blended so well with the scenes - it definitely helps set a tone (especially in the Van).Story and characters - brilliantly done. So many movies miss this mark (in my opinion) but the characters we are presented with are so lovable and real and it's hard not to get attached to the two main boys. The others all do their roles amazingly well with either setting up a sense of danger, being a helpful - sympathetic, and so on (won't say for spoilers).
The story is so well told, brilliantly paced and just so well done. A simple story about a single day and it's told to perfection. Things from the start come back later (which is always fun and rewarding to the viewer). It also shows the daily horrors of war in a casual way and it is most haunting.I adore this film and recommend it to everyone and anyone.
Some amazing cinematography that almost seemlessly blends into one shot.
George McKay is great as is Dean-Charles Chapman but for me, it was the supporting cast that made the most of their moments. In particular Richard Madden, Claire Duburcq, Adrian Scarborough and Mark Strong
1917 gives viewers, even those who watch war movie films on the regular, a different perspective. The one shot film does a beautiful take on war and its effect on those around them as we dont follow a legion of soldiers but 2 only and how their mission effects them. The only real bother for me would be the starting point, it's a bit boring but it does pick up pace after 20 minutes or so. If you like war movie, you should give this one a try.
Considered one of the best films of 2019 and a serious Oscar contender, 1917 tells the story of two British soldiers in World War One who have to save 1,600 of their fellow soldiers by informing their commander of a German trap being laid for them. The stakes are raised by the fact that one of those 1,600 is the brother of one of the two messengers. 1917 is intense, tragic, and a pure adrenaline rush.The thing that has garnered the most attention with this movie is the fact that it gives the illusion of being done in two takes and it looks like it is happening in real time. The result of this is perfect immersion. When you see from this camera's angle, it feels like you're really there and that you're going to deliver the message with them. It raises the tension greatly, in a movie that is tense by the nature of its premise. The cinematography, editing (how did it not get this Oscar nom?), design of sets and props, and sound are perfect. From a technical standpoint, it is quite possibly the best film of 2019.Throughout the film, we see various aspects of the reality of WWI, and all of it seems very plausible in its presentation. We see life in the trenches at the beginning, a relatively calm place all things considered. We see the deathly hell of No Man's Land, complete with a plethora of partially decomposed corpses, humans and animals. We see what civilians had to go through in the scenes in Ecoust. We see a battle, but not exactly the heat of it. And it all ends calmly. All of these factors combine to make it seem very real. When you watch this movie, you feel like you are part of it. Director Sam Mendes has said that the inspiration for this movie was a story told by his grandfather about his experience in World War I. That being said, you can imagine this being an old man's story of war, how he and a dear friend went on a mission together, and it adds a layer of authenticity to it. 1917 is exhilarating, heart-wrenching, engaging. It is one of the best films of the decade and a worthy contender for Best Picture.
What a movie. This movie could show the emotional side during the war. The cinematography, effect, music are exceptional. Great movie, very much recommended to watch.
I don't usually write reviews for films I will not start now. However I will say this movie is phenomenal cinematic art! I can see it sweeping awards easily because to have the vision to bring this into reality was an amazing feat from my perspective. It grabs you within the first ten minutes and doesn't let go. Everything about it is outstanding, the writing, acting, directing and cinematography. You will not go wrong with this investment of time and you will learn something about warfare 103 years ago.
To be watch on cinema. Interesting use of the camera.
What a great movie all in one shot, brilliant, compelling, stunning war drama which you will have a great time watching from start till finish. The cast is brilliant to watch, keeps you hooked to their characters absolutely no off putting elements there's literally nothing that can put you off while watching this great film, so yeah you will have a great time with this one.ENJOY, because i absolutely did.
Since the movie plays in real time, the viewer is put directly into the story and feels like the third soldier.At first, we accept Lance Corporal Tom as the lead character, since he has way more lines then William at the beginning. However, we get to understand that we need to switch to William. This rare in movies and brings a lot of depth and excitement.The storyline is very simple and easy to follow. We don't question the actions seen on screen, because it is always very clear. This forbiddens the interpretation of the viewer to a certain degree.The little dialogue helps us to perceive the environment and circumstances the characters are faceing. In return, we only know the main characters superficial which makes it hard to feel deeply connect to them.
This movie is truely unique giving you feeling of living the moments in WW1 times. It's brilliantly shot and the continuity in movie is amazing. Really impressive and a must watch if you want to experience Cinema.
In addition to two "James Bond" films, Sam Mendes has made many moving and strong works, such as "American Beauty", "Road to Perdition" and "Jarhead". This time Mendes returns spectacularly and poignantly to the war theme with "1917". The undercover favorite at the next Oscars (he has been nominated for ten trophies). Well, the Oscars have long ceased to be as important as they used to be, but of course I'm happy when a film like this is honored. For me, "1917" is already one of the best films in 2020!1917: The British soldier Lance Corporal Blake, together with his friend Lance Corporal Schofield, is ordered to cancel an attack on the Germans. To do this, they have to travel a long way to get to the western front. It's about saving hundreds of soldiers from a massacre. The order is all the more important for Blake because his older brother is among the units ...The film got into conversation quickly because "1917" is arranged so that everything looks like one shot. Of course there are some hidden cuts here (as with "Birdman" from 2015), but visually "1917" stands out right from the start. A beautiful and breathtaking looking film and the reason is quickly determined: Roger Deakins. He is the best camera operator for me in his field. One of his most recent projects, "Blade Runner 2049", is one of the most powerful and beautiful films of all time for me.
In Mendes' film again he creates unique images and scenes. Like how a city lights up in dark flames and tranforms into a real hell. Then it gets really intimate again when the camera follows the two soldiers into a mine. One spectacular setting chases the next. For this reason alone, you should see this film. Thomas Newman underlines the visually stunning epic with a moving score. Perhaps a little too sentimental for some, but I found Newman's score to be very moving (which funnily fits the visual style of the movie), no matter whether it were the emotional or the dark, atmospheric moments.Fortunately, the film can also convince in another area: the story. For some it may just be a film in which two soldiers have to achieve a goal, but for me it is exactly this simple story that leaves a lot of space for visual storytelling. There are also longer dialogue scenes, but "1917" often also works as a very calm war film, which is more about the physical challenges. But a figure can also grow on it, which in my opinion is shown stunningly.The cast is wonderful: George McKay and Dean-Charles Chapman are both great as protagonists. In addition, big names shine, such as Colin Firth or Benedict Cumberbatch. I appreciate the fact that many of the characters, both meet along the way can only be seen once (which also applies to the locations!). Mendes creates the feeling of having to go a long way with the two main characters, where you don't look back, you just move forward.Conclusion: "1917" will surely remind many of Christopher Nolan's "Dunkirk". Both films have a similar structure and similar themes, but each film is something different. I was a little afraid that "1917" would try to be the new "Dunkirk", but Sam Mendes made the film something special (like Nolan did with his movie). A moving war drama that is completely convincing both visually and with its history!
Gorgeous cinematography, scenography, music and costumes. A wondrous depiction of war, rich of details. It's just beautiful to look at. Technically brilliant.
The story though is linear, as linear as it can be and the characters are just...ordinary.
1917 is a brilliant adventure film, which was released in the 1. World War. Apart from an emotionally charged story, realistic dialogues and well acted characters, the movie offers a masterpiece of craftsmanship. Roger Deakins behind the camera manages to create a gripping experience through unique images and consistent camera work close to the main characters. Moreover, the sets seem to be taken from real life and make the viewer feel as if they are at war themselves.
I won't say anything about how immersive and impressive on a technical level this gritty yet moving film is; I just want to say that I can't remember the last time I identified with and was emotionally invested in a character in a war film as I did with George MacKay's William Schofield. What a talent!(9/10)
Espectacular,intensive moviewith less shots thati see after dunkerke.
Good actors, you feel how youre inside the history..
I have seen this movie 4 times already. It blows me away every time. Attention to detail, the acting, the cinematography, the direction.......I could go on and on. It's not a Saving Private Ryan movie.....but it's every bit a classic in the making.
Just finished watching 1917. I start by saying that I don't know how to find the right words to express my current emotional status.The first thing that comes to my mind about the movie is the style of directing. It was a bold choice, because of course you don't always see movies shot in that way, but I'm a 100% sure that it paid off. It really made you dive into the story, the characters' feelings and the details of the ruined war places you see. Furthermore, you see only one real and direct transition from scene to scene. That particular transition was also the audience's emotional transition, since I think it divides the movie into two main moments. That change of feeling, mood, and action made the viewers change emotionally, since it's clear that the movie is coming to an end, even though, you really can't expect anything anytime, because Sam Mendes knows what is doing.The cinematography is simply amazing. I wouldn't be surprised if it won an Oscar for that. The importance of colour is really highlighted, and it plays a really huge part in the film. I think that the relationship between colour and audience is real. Colour makes you emotionally weak, strong, anxious and frightened, and I can go on but the emotions I experienced are too many. Colour is the lead of the movie.One of the best parts of the movie was the original score. Since I care deeply about music in movies, I can say that I was not disappointed. Music accompanied colour in every moment of the movie, creating an atmosphere that really can't be explained. (There's a very intense scene when George Mackay's character arrives in the french village, where colour and music work together, as the protagonist runs trying to save himself)
I really want this aspect of the movie to be acknowledged.I want this movie to do well, because it deserves it. I can't wait for the Oscars and I can't wait seeing this movie win.
What an amazing picture. As we follow the protagonists through the film we learn about both the aftermath and the ongoing horror that is a world war. The cinematography is truly one of a kind. We are guided throughout the film unknowing of what's behind the next plain, or if it's an enemy or ally. A special film indeed!
Movie is visually great.
Great direction specially cinematography, all actors have done great job.
Also movie was directed to look like in a single shot.
This is what cinema was and hopefully will be again when the brain dead Millennials and GZs and those who serve them give way to a renaissance generation who embrace true film making anew. I feel sincerely sorry for the current youth who never grew up with classic film making. The marketing oriented sausage grinder tripe of today is enough to make those of us who know better weep crocodile tears (how's that for two run on sentences?). The franchise era should tossed on the scrap heap of history and be as quickly forgotten as it arose. Either that or relegate it to online streaming platforms that cater to the comatose masses. I sadly saw the last Star Wars installment a week before seeing this 1917. I thought I'd never go to the cinema again (it had been two years without a visit). I had abandoned all hope for film, but it sprung anew thanks to 1917. If it doesn't win best picture it will be all the evidence you ever needed that the fix has always been in, in Hollywood.
1917 is very intense, pretty much nonstop action. It has elements of Private Ryan with very realistic and horrifying special effects during the battle sequences, as well it has the "First person" POV (Point of View) made popular in such recent films as "Dunkirk" (as well as many video games).There's a bit more to the story than it seems at first, as the desire to fulfill the "Mission" becomes an all-consuming drive for both the protagonist and the audience. It drives hard to the finish and never stops making the point as so many have pointed out in history: "War is hell".We gave it a 9/10 and feel it is a likely contender for several Oscars.To address the silly critics who say that it "Looks like a video game". Silly people - video games were given the "First person" POV so they could simulate REAL war! If you've not been in combat, you might not know that, but don't pretend you know something when you don't!Other critics I've seen have said "There's so little character development". My goodness! Do you want to double the length of the film and see his birth and childhood too? It's not necessary for the plot of the movie. The movie presents us with REALISM and ACTION, as well as the fact that in war, there's no time to grieve, you simply gotta keep moving, or you're dead.Even if you do keep moving, you may wind up dead. Ask the guys who stormed the beaches of Normandy, they'll tell you: "The guy on my left was killed. The guy on my right was killed. I didn't get a scratch." That's called "Survivor's guilt" and is quite common.This movie grips you, and puts you in the trenches with the men who were there. That should make anyone shudder!
Meh at anyone who can rate this film low, I can tolerate difference of opinion but not blatant unfairness just because the viewer was having a bad day . Its an outstanding film and with outstanding performances from all. Its not an Hollywood special effects extravaganza but a realistic look at life, warts and all when faced with war.In amidst a time of loss and desperation 2 young soldier are given a huge task to carry out, for one of them its personal but it inspires the passion and endurance of the human spirit in both of them to face the sum of all fears even though the odds are hugely stacked against them. If you ever wanted to watch a real super hero film without the Hollywood special effects, this is it.
THIS REVIEW IS OPINIONATED AND STATED WITH TRUE FACTS. ENJOY!Let me begin by saying this film will definitely go down as one of the greatest films ever shot. It seems that Sam Mendes(Specter) and Roger Deakins(BladeRunner 2049) have taken a page from Hamilton's book, deciding not to waste their shot... Literally! Ok, let me stop with lame jokes and get to business. This entire film, from start to finish, was done in a single shot. Long-takes, match-cuts, and much more to create a groundbreaking film. So, here's my review on the film...ESCAPES Rating System by Davante Carter:Emotion: (8) "1917 definitely delivers an emotional experience!"
Script: (8) "The story, original as may be, was satisfying and good, but not great."
Camera: (9.5) "Cinema history was made in this film! Every frame's a painting."
Art: (9.5) "It's a 100mil film, so... it looks very good in value"
Performance: (9) "Great from the entire cast including extras."
Editing: (9) "Slow-paced, but worth it. It's like the editing was done in the camera."
Sound: (8.5) "Music is touching and the slightest sounds are heard. Just Listen"Overall ESCAPES Rating: 8.8/10 rounded to 9 for IMDB.EMOTION (The Feeling): 8/10
As a war film, much can be expected emotion-wise in your experience watching. Sadly, there is death all throughout the film. It's terrible seeing lifeless bodies all over, it's an experience the Director felt we should have as viewers, and it was an adventurous and cringing experience. The entire film was written based off an actual event that occurred April 6-7, 1917. This exposition opened the door for true emotions which Sam Mendez made sure we'd feel and there's comedy if you watch and listen closely. So, I rated this section a 9 because I felt something watching this film and I think everyone who watches this will feel something about it. The audience will have a satisfying emotional experience.SCRIPT (The Story): 8/10
The film reminded me of Saving Private Ryan(SPR) with its story, except the mission is being carried out by 2 men instead of a one. Of course the plot was arranged differently in 1917 than SPR, but I believe 1917 is a modern day take on SPR that was shot by Roger Deakins.CAMERA (The Look): 9.5/10
I don't believe I've progressed enough in my film studies to rate the cinematography of the great Roger Deakins. But, here goes...
What a masterful film cinematically! With this being the camera section, let me get straight to my favorite shot. I guess I'd have to call it a frame since the movie is only one shot. The camera during the opening 5 minutes had forced me to never stop watching. I was in awe of the camera movement! The camera crew worked really well together to get these amazing shots. It is true that any moment in the film could be seen in a painting. Deakins utilized camera tricks to achieve the look of a 2 hour long-take. He captured the terrain beautifully and used every type of shot you could think of in terms of movement, angle, framing and composition during a long-take movie. And this is the reason why I will refuse to watch this movie on anything but in the theaters, on a home projector, or a 75in SmartTV. It just looks so amazing on a big screen that I wouldn't want to watch it any other way.ART (The Production): 9.5/10
The locations were spot-on. I could see a war torn France. Production Designer Dennis Gassner (BladeRunner 2049), made locations for a movie that's continuous with no cuts, but takes place over miles of terrain. Pulling this off takes hardwork, skill, and experience. Gassner was the right man for this project. The execution of the Art department and the value of the film was above Excellent and done with an estimated 100mil budget. The budget was used very well. I rated this section a 9.5 because the locations, sets, make-up, etc... were all done very well. It just looks realistic.PERFORMANCE (The Acting): 9/10
From the main cast to the extras, all of the performances were fun and thrilling. George McKay deserved at least a nomination for this role. However, in seeing this film, I believe he will star in many more films and give more awesome performances. I recognized many of the actors as well. A few of them were television stars. It was a good performance for a relatively new generation of actors on the big screen. I rated this a 9 because I have no complaints about the performance and they were great throughout the long takes.EDITING (The Pace): 9/10
"It's soooo boring!!!" - Random moviegoer
Correction! The movie wasn't boring at all, it was only long because there were no cuts! Well, there were no cuts that you'd notice at least. The pace of this film was slow, but it gave us the fine details. The Moviegoer was expecting a quick shower, but got a refreshing bath instead. The pace matched the story. In truth, war isn't fast paced all the time. War is mainly about preparation and strategy, not fighting, and these two elements take time to master.
I researched that Lee Smith (the film's editor) worked closely with Deakins to achieve the one shot look. So, I'm just going to put it like this... The editing was so good that it's like it was never there! That's why the editing gets a 9.SOUND (The Rhythm): 8.5/10
This film sounded amazing. Mendes did a great job ramping up suspense with sound, and delivering with a punch but I couldn't remember anything about sound that jumped out. Well, there , but I jumped myself more than the scene jumped out at me. The gunshots sounded like actual gunshots, and the sounds were crisp. We were definitely within the movie at all times. I rated an 8.5 because I didn't feel a military style of music. It felt epic. Which was the right chose for a major production.So that's the review from 1917.
Thank you for reading.
When you combine an incredible story, with a good acting performance, the proper guidance and the right techniques, you achieve perfection, I guess. Probably the best combination of these elements I've ever seen. I don't know if it is perfect, maybe it's too early to call, but if this isn't the one, must say I feel very excited to imagine where do we go from here!
I read more reviews below and some of the negative stories about a thin script. I get that some plots are
maybe a bit easy but it's also a movie. A great movie which tells a 'small' story in the 'great war.'
I could see the plane coming from a mile away..Here is my own interpretation of that time.Guns weren't as good as in WW II, so I believe that people missed more often. I also believe that the soldiers back than weren't trained as good as you see in other war movies from the 2nd war etc.. they were young boys who had to go to war. That considering I think it's an very realistic and beautiful movie about what soldiers had to endure during that war.
Simple story, yet touching, a look of the final stage of World War I through the look of a soldier who needs to carry an important message far beyond no man's land. The staging is amazing, there are diverse sceneries which do not repeat in the movie and, specially the trenches, are recreated in a realistic way. The sound mix gets you into the mood of the film and have touching compositions. The camera is in third person, so you go with the protagonist throughout his journey. I think that there were some part of the story that could have been closed in a better way at the end, but overall the film gets you into the suffering of this soldier and the struggle to fulfill his important mission, while getting the audience into a clear representation of the life at the trenches.
Bringing war to theater & theater to war, Sam Mendes' 1917 puts to rest the notion that the First World War was a quieter conflict when compared to the Second as he captures the brutality & harrowing nature of trench warfare like nothing before, and shows why every inch of advancement through those trenches & barbwire-infested lands was a gruesome nightmare for soldiers back then.Co-written & directed by Sam Mendes, the film is a simple, straightforward story about two British soldiers tasked with travelling through no man's land to deliver an urgent message to an isolated regiment yet what makes it so ambitious is Mendes' decision to depict their perilous journey in real time, thus creating new technical challenges in the process which are then accomplished by the crew in groundbreaking ways.Sam Mendes' polished direction, Roger Deakins' spellbinding cinematography, Lee Smith's smooth editing & Thomas Newman's reverberating score work in tandem to put us into the protagonists' shoes and acquaint us with the palpable fear of being in a dangerous scenario where death lurks on every corner. Adding more authenticity to the setting are its meticulous set pieces, strong emphasis on realism & splendid performances from the cast.Overall, 1917 is one of the most visceral, intense & thrilling films of its genre, and is no less than an astounding achievement of warfare filmmaking that captures the perpetual sense of danger on the front lines with startling immediacy. Endlessly riveting & downright effective, it is an impressive piece of taut storytelling blended with first-rate craftsmanship, and effortlessly ranks amongst the best films of 2019. Setting a new benchmark for World War I epics, Sam Mendes' latest is no less than a technical & visual triumph.
So I decided to see this on my 22nd birthday - as I'd been wanting to watch it ever since I'd viewed the first trailer upon its release - & what a gift 1917 turned out to be!Intense, thrilling, enthralling, emotional, captivating; a remarkable technical achievement - insanely complex with its inventive ingenuity & yet made to looks so easy & simplistic as a stunningly immersive cinematic experience.Not a single ounce of the awe or admiration I had for the sheer craft of this film detracted from the story as the audience & I witnessed it unfold.Regardless of the outstanding level of meticulous consideration made for each & every frame of the movie's genius visual progression, we were all absolutely encapsulated, glued to our seats & eventually left the theatre as one collective mass of blubbering messes.Roger Deakins continuously surprises; I naively presumed Blade Runner 2049 would be defined as his career best & in decades to come, we'd look back & label it as the point in which his work eventually "peaked"... But then within just 2 films & 2 years later, he returns to obliterate his previous accomplishments, blowing what we thought we knew of his capabilities right out of the water, exceeding expectations immediately.Not only that but more importantly, Sam Mendes manages to expertly capture the unending horrors of war - depicting its grim brutality & inhumanity whilst also providing contrasting glimpses of it in the serenely quieter, contemplative moments, whilst conveying the general desperation for peace - reminding us that those who fought were not two dimensional military caricatures but normal men thrust in to an abnormal & hopeless situation - one they were never accustomed to or ever fully prepared for. Their battles weren't valiant or heroic - the conflicts erupted from the struggles of survival. Additionally, the violence isn't glorified or portrayed as inherently good, but morbidly necessary in the intent of preserving life. It's this moral ambiguity which prevents the feature from becoming clichd.The astonishing production design, the strikingly intelligent & concise writing, the breathtaking cinematography, the faultless direction, the subtly masterful editing & the incredible music (major praise given to Thomas Newman for crafting such a fierce & tense score); all of this culminated to form what can only be described as a genuine masterpiece.
... people gasping all around me. My grandfather was pushed out of the Naval Academy a year early in 1917 to fight in WWI, and no movie has put me anywhere near his shoes until this one. I was floored. As a photographer, the cinematography amazed me - the best of films draw you in and make you forget where you are. Other than identifying Tommin Lannister and Robb Stark, I was very, very present.
The movie is shot perfectly to show the raw emotions and the confusion surrounding war. However, some things are too coincidental to feel natural. Felt like the story had some loopholes.
This story is so well told and so heart breaking. I didn't know much about it going into it besides that it was a war movie, but after watching it it is so much more. It tells the side of the war that the people don't see. The compassion that we still give as humans even though there is chaos and death all around. The story of the men who went to war and what they experienced during it.
Honestly an hour into it I couldn't believe it because it felt like such a short time. I was so fully engrossed into the movie and it had my attention completely throughout the entire movie.
I would highly recommend that you give this movie a watch and see what you would take from it yourself.
1917 is a good film that consistently holds the attention of its audience. However, it frequently does not engage the emotions. The main gimmick of the film can be a distraction that takes the audience out of the story. This film is a spectacular production that undoubtedly was difficult to create. The cast lend considerable credibility to the film.
Beautiful, haunting, breathless, nervy, eye-catching, terrific movie. One for the ages.I gave it nine stars because no movie is without flaws but it deserves ten.
Poor wayfaring stranger song isn't on a sound track, but if you want something close you should check out Narrow Way's version on YouTube and iTunes!
As a director Sam Mendes has created some amazing final products rich with character development on a variety of budgets - notably for this reviewer "American Beauty" (Estimated $15MM Budget) and "The Road To Perdition" (Budget $80MM) - films I both rated as 9/10.1917 (Budget $100MM) is not his best work, though it ranks as quite an achievement, nonetheless. Based on a story from Mendes' own grandfather, 1917 moves at a compelling pace and includes some surprises along the way. As an audience member, I was moved to sympathize with the protagonist, but not to really "love" him - because we just did not know enough about his own story, or those of the other main characters engaged. It's a shame, because the drama and the stakes of the resolution could not be higher - yet the table was not fully set for true "transformation". Instead, though, yes, we root for the hero, we don't truly find ourselves moved to identify fully with him or those 1600 lives at stake and more.I enjoyed the film, but was not deeply impacted by it. It's truly a missed opportunity on the 100th anniversary of WWI and the millions of stories still waiting to be told. To those who suffered during this horrific global conflict, I give all due respect. It is incumbent on us as storytellers to exploit our own skills to the fullest when given a $100 MM opportunity.My review: 7/10 stars.
Breathtakingly realistic, immense setting, perfect acting, shows the brutal reality of WW1, easily the best movie of the year, one of the best movies of the decade, one shot, so realistic that it was almost frightening!One of the best war movies ever made and it easily confirms the Great War as the most brutal and unearthly like in all of mankind. PEOPLE NEED TO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!
This film was just incredible, this is arguably the finest cinema experience I've had, I felt fully invested in the story, on the edge of my seat as these two soldiers dodge bullets and artillery as they strafe across No Man's Land and through burnt-out towns. This is what IMAX was made for.Regarding the story, it's rather simplistic, two soldiers are ushered to the frontlines to deliver a message that will prevent the slaughter of 1,600 British soldiers, it sounds rather basic, but its the character development of George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman, who both deliver stunning performances, that sells the story. The banter and heartfelt backstories that cover the interludes of battle add realism to these characters, they make them relatable and therefore make us care for their outcome.On a technical level, this is where the film shines. I'm quite biased as Roger Deakins is my favourite cinematographer, Thomas Newman is my favourite composer and Sam Mendes is one of my favourite directors, so watching these 3 come together (for a fourth time) instantly garnered my attention, and I'll be damned if I can't say that this is Deakins' magnum opus, the way the camera moves fluidly to create the illusion of a one-shot take is just incredible, it places us as an audience in the trenches with the soldiers, in the thick of the hell they have to endure. Newman has crafted better scores (with my favourite being 'Road to Perdition - coincidentally also a Mendes film) but this one is undeniably brilliant, the scores during the sequences set in nighttime coust-Saint-Mein and the final push across No Man's Land are phenomenal. And whilst I would love to see Newman FINALLY win his Oscar, it'll likely be another heartbreaking snub.Finally, Mendes has for a long time retained his position as one of my favourite auteurs, with 'American Beauty', 'Road to Perdition' and 'Skyfall' being some of my favourite films, but this is something truly different, this is his homage to his grandfather, and therefore feels more personal, it feels more grounded and is truly a cinematic masterpiece, and I couldn't ask for a finer film to end the decade with.
Firstly, in my opinion this is an astonishing accomplishment & worthy of note in cinematic history. The camera work is astounding, the editing was incredible & the cinematography stunning... The entire department should be immensely proud of what they have put together! One seemingly continuous shot put together in a similar fashion to Children of Men, but done in a way that the camera always feels controlled & has a more artistic handle on the shot at hand at any given moment. This has to be acknowledged as nothing short of incredible.I don't condone war & do not adhere to the propaganda of war either, but some of the greatest films ever made have been based on events that without war, could never have existed & that would be a shame... The story here is quite eventful & most couldn't even begin to imagine the sheer horror of being tasked with such a journey through enemy territory, filled with skirmishes & dangers above & around you, never mind just the idea of being there. This film manages to put you right in the thick of how manic, eerie & horrific everything could be & does it superbly.Definately in my top war epic list, up there with Apocolypse Now, Platoon & Full Metal Jacket etc. It's not the same kind of war film but worthy of the list.9/10 - 1917 is the best I've seen in years.
This film is a very good watch but it is very intense so you need to be in the right mood and know what to expect. The main character is very well acted and is able to portray the emotions and strain of war. The film is one continuous shot which is very impressive. It also shows all the horrors of the war. One of the best scenes shows the soldiers going over the top as the character runs along the front line. One very small criticism is that the main character is shot at a lot but a lot of bullets miss him even though the German soldiers are quite close to him. The main character is able to shoot a German in a tower from quite a long distance. This is because the main character has to be put in danger but obviously he can't die before his mission is over or the film would be over. When his mission is done there is very little recognition for the main characters journey which adds to the realism as the commanding offices have a lot of other issues to deal with which adds to the realism. The music is very good and the film looks very realistic. There is one scene with a plane crash which is very well done. Overall, this film is a brilliant portrayal of World War 1. There are a lot of World War 2 films but not many World War 1 films so this helps to address that. It may be too graphic for schools but it could be shown to show how awful the conflict was.
1917 tells the story of Lance Corporal Schofield(George MacKay) & Lance Corporal Blake(Dean-Charles Chapman). Schofield & Blake are tasked with a very important & difficult mission. They have to deliver a message in hostile territory, that will save the lives of 1,600 soldiers, from walking into an extremely dangerous trap.1917 is a mind-blowing film. Director Sam Mendes has given us a pulse-pounding, edge of the seat, action-packed & emotional thrill ride, that is unlike any war movie I've watched before. All the war set pieces are jaw-dropping. What is even more impressive is, the whole film is made to look like a single take, from Schofield & Blake's perspective. Kudos to cinematographer Roger Deakins. George MacKay is spectacular as Lance Corporal Schofield. Dean-Charles Chapman is outstanding as Lance Corporal Blake. The cameos from all the legendary British thespians, are unforgettable. 1917 is a must watch. It deserves Best Film at this year's Oscars & a host of other accolades, that it has already received & will receive.
This movie is such a thrilling cinematic achievement that truly captures what it would have been like to be in war. The one shot take really serves the movie's suspense and feel.
Not your typical war film, in the sense that it isn't a 2 hour long kill fest showing one side out shooting the other. More focus is put on the human side of things which was very refreshing, especially considering how well acted each character is.Although the plot may disappoint some, I thought it was brilliantly paced and plenty happened. Regardless of the content, the production deserves recognition for what was achieved here.The 'single take' technique flowed much more smoothly than expected and the amount of effort required to get certain long takes spot on must have been immense. I expected to find it a little jarring or too intense, however the subtle cuts they made helped a great deal.I was also impressed with the representation of Sikh soldiers as I feel they are so rarely shown in films or documentaries for the part they played in the war. Granted there are only a few scenes and a couple of lines but nevertheless I was happy to see some inclusion.The cinematography and set design deserve special recognition, again regardless of the plot itself what the production team did with 1917 is nothing short of genuis. I highly recommend watching a behind the scenes video for this film, seeing the scale of the sets built is mind blowing.Doubt it'll win best picture but it certainly deserves at least a few Oscars given the amount of work put into making it.
A masterpiece, really. That's all there is to it. Beautifully shot, beautifully written, beautifully executed. I have zero negatives about it. One of the best movies I have ever seen. Absolutely speechless.
Hands down this is the best movie of 2019, everything was exceptional. History, acting, direction, editing, sound design, etc. Simply blown away with this jewel.
Imagine yourself wanting to know what it's like to be in the war zone if you have never been a soldier or in war. This movie captures brilliantly the emotions, and moods of two soldiers tasked with mission of delivering a letter that can prevent a catastrophe. The urgency they face while facing dangers right in front of enemies are cinematographically shot scenes by scenes to showcase their hope which is a very dangerous thing, as said by the Colonel. Director Mendes deserves to be praised for his work and proposes us with a question: "Is war really about the last one standing?"
Of the story isn't that good but with master piece Implementation
Still cant believe the direction and photography of movie it just amazing
The actors make a great job
Great soundtrack
As I say it just a masterpiece
I still wonder how to describe it right but I cant
Great movie with a beautiful storyline that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Well worth seeing!
Watched this with my husband last night fantastic film totally immersed in it from the start felt like you were there with them . Brilliant camera work . Deserves so many Oscars.
Very dramatic war film that shows the terror and trauma in all its horror. The seemingly one long shot of the first and second part adds to the whole stress of the operation of the two cadets. beautifully shot landscapes contrast the stoic but terrified characters.What I escpecially liked abt the film was that it included sikh and black soldiers.A film abt their experiences in the military and during the war would be much appreciated and necessary.As I wrote in the beginning i liked the film a lot but there have been enough stories told abt white male suffering :D
I enjoyed this film. The scenery made you believe you were in the middle of the rampage from WW1. The acting was very believable. You flowed the main character throughout the movie seeing things as he saw them, smelled them, felt them....on the front lines as an English soldier. Very well done.
This would be my favourite to win quite a few Oscars. We cannot forget the First World War. We just must not. Never. Our Western society is built on certain values and we faught and died for it. We defeated the Ottoman Empire with great difficuty so we may enjoy the freedoms and values we have today. This movie captures that. Well done for a gripping, edge of the seat movie that I can never forget!
There was a lot of hype behind this film before I got a chance to see it myself, reading review after review...........giving extremely high praise and being tipped to win Best Picture at this year's Oscar's!!!!! It had a lot to live up too............I am please to say that for the most part, yes this film is truly incredible.....however I ended up not liking it as much as I thought I would !!There is three people behind the camera I want to congratulate first on this epic achievement. Firstly, no surprise, Sam Mendes..........to even think the idea of shooting the film pretty much one take or so it looks like it was done in one take, is extremely ballsy. Granted he isn't the first or the last filmmaker to use this technique on film, however nobody has come close to this scale as of yet.......especially in a war film. Right from the get go the film starts and it doesn't stop at all really until the end, the run time flies by...........this is helped by the "one shot" use. Simple but an interesting, emotionally driven story that keeps you riveted all the way along........you as the audience are taking each corner or scene with the characters. The amount of detail that has gone into this film is incredible, especially after watching some of the behind the scenes...........wow, a truly wonderful achievement, one of Mendes's best. The other two people behind the camera who deserve a mention are Roger Deakins and Thomas Newman respectively. The combination of their cinematography and score at times really really does leave you speechless............both of them absolutely top class !George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman are both great in the film, its definitely helped by the fact that they are relatively unknown actors, which can only help in the audience immersion and believability of their characters. You simply believe them and their rationale for everything they do and say..........they are young men being put in an almost impossible position, I cant quiet fathom how terrifying that sort thing must have been............if this story were real !There some great little cameos to from some extremely recognisable faces. Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Richard Madden and Benedict Cumberbatch all have small roles but are extremely effective. The film needed someone who was more experienced.......a leader and all of them were great on screen for their limited time. Good work!However after all of that I'm left in a really strange place...........I really really liked the film it is very good don't get me wrong, its just maybe I was expecting something that much better considering the hype?!?!?! I don't know what it is about the film there is just something.......not lacking but something that little bit extra special.....I cant put it into words or describe it.....its just a feeling!! Put it this way if you gave me the choice of watching "1917" or "Dunkirk" or "Hacksaw Ridge" I wouldn't choose "1917".........Its just not very re-watchable!?!??!Overall though with that little minor gripe out the way I still really really enjoyed the film it is very good 80% out of 100.........not my favourite of the year, actually nowhere near being the best of year for me........but thats my personal opinion!! Great directing, acting, production design, cinematography and score...........just not very re-watchable for me unfortunately!! But definitely should go and see in the theatre !!!!
The plot is a simple one - 2 guys have to deliver a message to the battalion stationed on the other side. What makes this an wonderful experience rather than a 'see and forget' movie is the exceptional cinematography by Roger Deakins. The entire movie looks like a single shot and it makes you feel you are walking along with the 2 protagonists rather than watching it. There are good jump scare moments in the film. Overall, a wonderful experience this movie is!!
Really good war film. The amazing music and the one-shot makes the film amazing. Really good cast and the best camera work that I have ever seen. It is an amazing film for everyone who want to get a realistic war atmosphere in a film. 86/100
7/10 definitely go and see this film if you have the opportunity.
A side note: I turned up at the local cineplex and the ticket person checked my ticket and pointed out the correct cinema showing 1917. I didn't think I had arrived late but it seemed to have already started. The scene was the trip by the vehicles through the mud and fallen trees. I picked up the story no problem. My impressions at this point of the movie was the extremely inappropriate music that sounded more in keeping with a Star Wars film than something set in World War I. I had similar issues with the movie 'Dunkirk'. Anyhow after 40 minutes the movie finished and I knew something was wrong. I checked back with (another) ticket collector and found that my session wouldn't be starting for 20 minutes. So I managed to see 1917 twice. At least some of it twice.
Seeing the beginning made me rethink a few of the issues I had initially felt. Yes the music was still inappropriate and as the volume and tension slowly increased we all knew that something was going to happen. Worse was that the music was continuous through, I guess, 90% of the movie. Why don't directors just leave everything to the sound effects department?
I also found that the slight overuse of profanity and gestures a bit out of period. Am open to correction here.
To the movie. When I first viewed it I was not conscious of the 'one shot' camera work until the final conflict. Seeing it from the beginning impressed me so much. The camera work and art direction deserve awards and what is sometimes overlooked is the extras casting. Absolutely brilliant.
The two leads had to hold the whole film together and they did that and more.
Ok, I have issues, but over all, if someone asked me what I thought, I would have to tell them that this was probably one of the most visually exciting movies of the past ten years.
Here's my review of 1917. So 1917 is directed by Sam Mendes , and I've been looking forward to this movie ever since the trailer dropped cause it's from the minds behind The war movie Jarhead which was also directed by Mendes and shot by frequent collaborator Roger Deakins. And I wasn't disappointed. In fact, I was blown away ! . The story is set amidst world war 1 and it's about these two soldiers who have to get through a lot of German territory and notify their camp to stop the planned attack for the next day. The journey to the camp is filmed to look like a one shot with no edits like how birdman was shot. And the man who shot it was Roger frickin Deakins , the man who shot the Shawshank Redemption , Blade runner 2049 and pretty much every movie which is worthy of being your desktop wallpaper , and this movie is no exception. The way it's shot makes you feel claustrophobic and also like you're watching a first person shooter game. The score by Thomas Newman was great and added a lot of weight to the story. The gripes I had with this movie was that you don't really care much for the characters cause you don't know much about them and since it's a warzone it's no surprise if anyone dies really, and the dialogue felt very bland in b/w convos , but I guess that's how people really talk at a time of crisis and quotable dialogue would've made it seem more fictional. In the end 1917 is more of an experience than a movie and to sum it up , it's the Revenant meets Dunkirk .
A relatively simple story, 2 men have to get a message across enemy lines to stop a battalion from advancing into a trap on April 6th 1917 during World War 1.However the one shot structure, brings you right into the trenches with them, and you get to witness all the small changes in facial expressions, that convey far more accurately than words how they are feeling as they face unusual and daunting circumstances.The cinematography is exceptional, as is the recreation of the trenches and no-mans land. There is almost constant tension throughout the film, which keeps you on your seat just expecting something awful to happen to our characters at every turn.A fantastic depiction of the chaos of war and the cheapness with which human life can be discarded and at the same time, the huge efforts that can be taken to preserve it. It has certainly reignited my interest in the history of the First World War, and will be reading up on it ASAP!A triumph, well worth seeing, you won't be disappointed!
This movie is so much thrilling and the camera work and performances are superb. Effects and CGi is so real and well done, a jewel of a movie to watch. One of my favorites for 2019!
I doesn't feel right reviewing a film of this stature when I watched it sitting in the comfort of an IMAX with a glass of Malbec in one hand and someone else's hand in my other... This depiction of the true horror of WWI really does get to the heart of the sacrifices made by ordinary, afraid, young men and lay them bare. I didn't find it particularly gory, or even scary for that matter, but Sam Mendes' direction, particularly of a wonderful George MacKay, but also of Dean-Charles Chapman is tender, taut and emotionally charged in a way that I haven't seen "Saving Private Ryan". The more established members of the cast - Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Andrew Scott feature sparingly, and do add value - but the film belongs undoubtedly to the two youngsters sent on an almost impossible mission across enemy lines to warn their comrades (one, being MacKay's brother) and save hundreds of lives. Thomas Newman's sensitive scoring and some magnificent cinematography from Roger Deakins make this an enormously engaging telling of courage, determination and loyalty. I'd sort of assumed "the Joker" was unstoppable as the best film at the Oscars this year; I certainly don't think that now! It does need a big screen to do it justice; and is very much worth seeing.
Amazing cinematography by Roger deakins..
This is one of the best war movie..
Very realistic. A spectacle, a thriller, a character piece. Top script, direction, acting, cinematography, costume, sets. Should have beem required viewing for Tony Blair and George Bush before the 2nd Gulf war. Pity it wasn't made then.
An absolute masterpiece , stunning cinematography from start to finish .
1917 is a masterpiece. The cinematography is some of the best I've ever seen in a movie. The entire movie uses extraordinarily clever camera tricks to appear as though the entire feature was shot in one take. The way that Sam Mendes and his team shoot the film makes you feel like you're there with the Lance Corporals. You feel their claustrophobia when they're almost buried by a German booby trap, experience the same relief when they reach daylight again and react to gunshots with the same surprise and fear. Towards the end, the shots speed up with the characters, expertly portray their urgency to complete their mission. The stubtle ways the camera shows the harsh realities of war and unnecessary loss of life is masterful and the two main characters are three dimensional, real people, who didn't deserve to be in such a harsh situation. This movie absolutely deserves its best cinematography and best director nominations at the 92nd Academy Awards and I sincerely hope that it wins in both categories. This movie is a must see.
The movie was very good .The direction and the cinematography were so good . I think Sam Mendes will get oscar .
.when a movie becomes art. Simple yet amazing. The camera work is unbelievable. A must see on the big screen. So don't wait for it to appear on Netflix.
The "one shot" does it all! Immersive, deep and true vibe. Great movie with a lot of psychological action. Its not about war.
I guess who rated it low don't know a lot about WW1 and not mature enough because the war itself wasn't 'sexy' as WW2.
This is one of the finest examples of great cinema I've seen in years, the film is simply brilliant - well acted , well shot, and genius direction from Sam Menndes and another fine soundtrack from Thomas Newman.
I saw 1917 for the second time last night. Words can't express just how stunning it is.I won't say anything else besides go see it. It's truly a masterpiece.
Transfixed from start to finish. Flawless execution. The entire cast and crew ought to be congratulated. These stories will slowly be lost to history and so they deserve your time and attention.
Intense, heart stopping, shocking, traumatising, raw, sad, heartwarming all rolled into one. This film - with a simple storyline - reveals the horrors of war yet pulls you into the characters as if you're there experiencing it with them. I was on the edge of my seat one minute, feeling sad the next, and finished the film reflecting on what it must have been like for those who fought for us to have the freedom we have today. Usually when the credits come on in the cinema, everyone rushes up to leave. Not this film; the whole cinema was silent and still, even while the credits were rolling. I have no other words to describe this emotional rollercoaster, other than to go and see it!
Not many films leave a lasting impression like this. Roger Deakins' pioneering cinematography made it an awesome film, but this certainly was not the prize of the show. This enhanced the great story that Mendes successfully portrayed. It captured the grit of what I would imagine war in the trenches to have been like. If you want 2 hours of backside clenching, give it a watch.
1917: The trenches are narrow but crowded, some soldiers on one side waiting to go over the top, some crouched on the other side, eating, smoking, crying, in shock, petting a terrier. When you're moving fast through a trench system tempers are short when you bump into troopers, they are likely bereaved of friends, seeing their mates lose limbs. Blake (Dean Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) are on a mission to inform two isolated battalions of the Devonshires to call off an attack due the next morning, the Devons will be advancing into a trap. The stakes are higher for Blake, his brother is in one of the battalions. The messengers cross no mans land, bodies caught on the barbed wire, rats gnawing on corpses, dodging snipers, booby-traps once they reach the abandoned German trenches. Watching an aerial dogfight. This is truly a journey into the heart of darkness for Blake and Schofield.Wonderfully filmed by Roger Deakins in subdued colours with shades of brown, tan, green and khaki predominating as the soldiers progress through the mud and fields. Also some great scenes underground and in shelled out buildings lit by flares. The script is spare but gripping as not just MacKay and Chapman put in great performances; there are also great supporting turns by Mark Strong, Colin Firth , Nabhaan Rizwan and Benedict Cumberbatch. Director/Writer Sam Mendes delivers a film which will remain in your memory long after the final credits roll. 9/10.
Technically the most impressive film ever, characters are relatable, the movie is just so well balanced and impactful just go watch it at the cinema no ifs or buts.
Everyone says that, right? And they aren't wrong, but it takes more than excellent cinematography to make a complete movie going experience.I have to be real, I love war films and I love slow films but this film is mostly dull with a few outstanding moments. It is in the humble opinion of this movie goer that Dunkirk was a similair but more riveting experience.I liked the movie, don't get me wrong, but too many reviewers are setting up readers for disappointment with their ridiculous praise. I wholly recommend you go see this movie if you enjoy films like Dunkirk, just be sure to check your expectations at the door.
Most war films are intense but this goes to a whole new level in its own way. The film being set in one long shot is very unique but works brilliantly.The pace of the movie is incredible it goes past in the blink of an eye and at the end the first thing I thought was 'I have to see that again'.Because of the pace of the film it doesn't allow for a lot of character development outside of the main characters but that doesn't detract at all.A great film and a brilliant bit of directing.
War films were made in large numbers in the decades of 50s and 60s (mainly set in World War 2) were a staple for audience's along with Spy films. You had classics like Dirty Dozen, Guns of Navarone, Kelly's Heroes & Where the Eagles Dare and comedies like Operation Petticoat made during those period. Unfortunately audience's preferences declined and the only memorable war films since then were the ones like Apocalypse Now, Saving Private Ryan, Dunkirk & Hacksaw Ridge according to my opinion. This year we got to see a mediocre yet entertaining Midway and a gem like 1917.Based on the events partly narrated by his grandfather, director Sam Mendes offer the greatest tribute to his grandfather with a gem like 1917. It describes the story two soldiers who have to deliver a message to their battalion in the enemy territory before they fall to enemy's trap.Some might find the pace of the film a bit slow but it effectively showcases the difficulties the two soldiers have to encounter in delivering the message. The director excels in showcasing the emotion of the two soldiers which was complimented by CGI free cinematography.All actors enacted their parts well and the direction of the film by Sam Mendes (A comeback of sorts after a mediocre Spectre and has added another gem into his kitty along with films like Road to Perdition and Skyfall) along with excellent cinematography by Roger Deakins.Hope this film earns the Academy Award for the Best Picture and make the genre of War films more relevant.(Rather than relying on big budgeted Franchise films the Hollywood studios should take an initiative in supporting more such films which will be appreciated by audiences)
This fine film's title made me think immediately of the Third Battle of Ypres, better known as Passchendaele. That, however, was fought between 31 July and 6 November 1917, whereas the film is set on 6 April. 1917 draws upon the memories of the director Sir Sam Mendes's grandfather and was designed, remarkably, to look like one continuous shot.The two central characters, Lance-Corporals Tom Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Will Schofield (George McKay), go on a desperate mission. This lasts one day, and certainly feels like it, and they're exposed to the full horror of World War 1. There's also a devastating tragedy along the way.Together with the horror, I think, there's pathos. I was reminded of the words of the great WW1 poet Wilfred Owen, "My subject is War, and the pity of War. The Poetry is in the pity." This is partly reflected in the film's central theme of devotion to duty, based on absolute obedience to orders - even when a high-ranking officer tells Will to "f off" (I'd say that's one of the most shocking moments in the film).There's some underlying pathos too in the camaraderie between most of the young soldiers. Of course we know now that the great majority had to make the ultimate sacrifice, so the pathos is self-evident. They couldn't have known that, though, and we see that they're generally innocently good-natured and quick to help their comrades. Tom and Will clash at times but essentially they have a strong bond of friendship.Pity and horror are combined when soldiers are shot dead on sight simply for being identified as "the enemy". Some words from Wilfred Owen's poem "Strange Meeting" come to mind: "I am the enemy you killed, my friend. /I knew you in this dark: for so you frowned/Yesterday through me as you jabbed and killed." This is even more poignant as Owen himself was killed one week before the Armistice.This film is deeply impressive and has, I think, no major faults. There are just some "arty" effects of flashing colours and some insistent background music. It also has touches of an action movie in which heroism triumphs against the most overwhelming odds. This is redeemed by the desperate seriousness of the mission at the heart of the film.It was clever to give cameo roles to a few star actors, including Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Richard Madden. Nicholas Hytner had already done the same in "The Lady in the Van", redeploying stars from the stage and screen versions of "The History Boys".
I've seen a decent amount of war movies in my life, and while I've always had an appreciation for such films as "Saving Private Ryan", and "Schindler's List", I've never been a war movie fanatic. Even though I have praise to give them, I tend to not revisit them too often. This film however, I can say that I can see myself revisiting at least a few more times, and more than likely while it's still in theaters. It's a marvel of an achievement in the cinematography department, and the production behind it is anything but lazy. The acting is superb, and believable in every scene. The lighting is very effective in a few key scenes that are standing out fresh in my mind. The movie also knows just when to have a lack of a score to build tension, and when to bring in the epic orchestra to ramp up the drama of the scene. The make up is top notch, and the wardrobe is indistinguishable from authentic uniforms of the time. The story, though simple, is very engaging, and does an outstanding job of plopping you right in the middle of it. For it being the "one shot" gimmick throughout the film, I never once felt that the pacing suffered from it, and it only added to the experience, and the immersion. Most movies I see, even the ones I adore, tend to have very small things here and there that I can find to nitpick if I really want to, but this film, I can't think of one thing I would change. Not one thing comes to mind that could've improved this experience for me. See this movie on the big screen if you can. I urge you to not let this movie fly under the radar. See it, tell people you know to see it. Help ensure that the very hard work that was put into this pays off for all of those involved! I cannot recommend it enough!
1917 is the latest Oscar bait war movie to come out, though this time set in World War 1. Most of these films like to be set in World War 2 or Vietnam, or even Iraq. The only other film in recent memory set in WWI is Wonder Woman, which barely counts as a war movie. I'm personally not the biggest fan of war movies. They can get boring, and many of them tend to feel the same. The last war movie I saw in theaters was Dunkirk, which everyone adored except me. I thought movie was a boring slog. There are some war films I really like though, such as Apocalypse Now and We Are Soldiers. The ones I enjoy the most tend to be ones like Wonder Woman and Overlord where the war is just the backdrop. It isn't the main story. Apocalypse Now could fall into that category as well.Is this movie good? Yes. As war movies go this one is definitely solid, if not above average. The performances were good. The cinematography is amazing. The score, coupled with the set pieces, give the film a very eerie and tension-filled atmosphere.The thing that stands out the most about this film is the way it's shot. This film is made to seem like it was filmed in one take, or at least two takes, even though that's not the case. I don't know how they did it, but they truly made it look like they shot the entire film all in one go. I don't think I've seen another movie shot like this. This sets 1917 apart not just from other war movies, but other films in general. Because of this it truly feels like you're taking this journey along with our lead characters, and it almost never gives you time to breathe.If you're looking for lots of action, which is typical for a film like this, you're not going to get much of it. While it has its action, this is much more of a thriller than an action piece. I find it funny that a movie like Dunkirk had much more action in it, yet I was more engaged by this movie than that one. This probably because you're with the characters much more in this film and you get to see them constantly struggle against overwhelming odds all alone. Dunkirk was much more focused on its massive action that the characters got lost in all of it.There's not much characterization here either. However, because we're with these characters for literally the entire film I was able connect with them and their plights much more. The performances by the lead actors helped as well. I felt the acting was pretty flat all around in Dunkirk.Overall, if you like war movies then this is definitely a must see. If you just want to see a good thriller then this is worth checking out as well.
This film is easily the most immersive movie I have seen all year. From the time the title card was displayed until the time the credits rolled, I was totally enthralled by the events of the film. 1917 had me on the edge of my seat for 2 hours straight and left me feeling as if I had just endured the events firsthand.
Storytelling - 1917 was basically 2 hours of great decision-making. The film drops the viewer off at the best possible moment so that we truly feel as if we are in the situation. This is a feeling that, although established immediately, lingers for the entirety of the film's runtime. Every emotion that the characters felt throughout the movie-dress, fear, despair, triumph, anger- I felt right alongside them. The film strays far from the formula typical to most movies, causing a pervasive sensation unpredictability and fear. Overall, while the story was limited in its scope by the fact that it was almost actual-time, it soars through its unique style and extreme realism. 9/10
Acting - The acting in this film is truly masterful. The two leads did a fantastic job of portraying their characters in manner that helped the audience sympathize with them almost immediately. Certain sequences required the actors convey a wide variety of emotion using nothing but their facial expressions. Once again, the film moves at such a pace that it is very hard for the actors to slow down and really explore deeper emotions, but the still played their parts expertly. 9/10
Script - 1917 has considerably less dialogue than many films that came out this year. This kept it from being as deep as other films, and yet, like all the other categories, it worked fantastically for the film. There were definitely hints of depth and history between certain characters found in the lines, and I cannot complain on any level. 9/10
Characters - This is where the film was impacted most by the frenetic pace. It was very rare that the two leads were not in an extremely tense, life-threatening situation which made it very hard to delve into their characters and understand more about them. It's hard to truly complain about the characters, but they certainly were not as well-explored as some other films. It worked great for the film, but I still feel as if I should maintain a single standard for all films. 8/10
Cinematography - I'll keep this brief. The best cinematography of the year. Hands down. Constant, superb decision-making from Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins made this film stand out among the dozens of war films that have been released and created one of the best film experiences I have ever had. 10/10
Personal opinion - As always, I factor in the way that I personally felt about the film. I left this movie feeling as if I had seen a huge step for film in general. The way this film was crafted truly make it a work of art. I typically prefer strong er characters, but 1917 did everything he could do to strengthen the characters and, with minimal work from the audience, the characters develop quite nicely all things considered. I adored this film and cannot wait to experience it again. I personally give this film a 9/10. Overall, the score evens out to be 9.0/10.
Quite a movie-a simple story masterfully done that told a much larger story, and that was the tragic futility of the First World War. It is art rather than entertainment or history. Having done exhaustive research on the war for One Night in a Bad Inn, many visual details were familiar. I don't remember being so affected by a movie since the Passion of the Christ. I think seeing it on the big screen amplified the intensity. We saw it in XD. I also can't recall a movie in which the music was this effective in amplifying the drama; the music sweeps you into the scene. I found it remarkable that the leads were played by unknown actors while three A list actors played cameo roles. Though the director's grandfather was in the war and one of his stories was the inspiration for movie, the story line was fictional as were the characters. Telling the details of history was not the point of the film. Telling the broad truth of a war that was one the greatest tragedies in history was.
I suggest sitting toward the back of the theater. The dialogue included R rated language that I can always do without. If you are familiar with the First World War, put all that out of your head. I was distracted thinking where are they, which battle, . . .? That's not the point. Just watch it. Having seen only one other best picture nominee, this definitely deserved to win.
I feel like this film captures the essence of such statement much more so than many other films of the action/war genre. Together with our hero, we realize that all our plans and desires are fragile. Quite often, in fact, it's our own physical limitations as human beings that prevent us from fulfilling set goals. Intentions however not only count for getting war medals, but they do make a difference. I just love this half-full vs half-empty undertone that the film sets from start to finish.Speaking of this film from the technical standpoint, it is as good as they say. While initially I was unsure about using long takes (not the biggest fan of such gimmicks), I felt in this case its use did not detract anything from the plot. It actually made it appear more personal in places.p.s. Special mention goes to some of the best foreshadowing moments I have witnessed so far.
Ever since I've watched "American Beauty", the directorial debut/beginners luck charm of director Sam Mendes; I've trusted the craftmanship of his films to be top-notch even if the stories aren't as strong ("Jarhead", "Spectre"). How does "1917" currently hold up?This film gives us a fly on the wall perspective of a couple of days during World War One (a war that's rarely touched upon in mainstream films). Two British soldiers Will Schofield and Tom Blake must race against a time to hand-deliver a message to a fellow bettalion in order to save them from impending doom by German enemy forces.This has been touched upon by everyone who knows about this film; but I can't help but mention how making this film look like one take is done masterfully, helping it stand out from other well known/recent war movies.Those who were disappointed by the lack of characterization in 2017's World War Two juggernaut "Dunkirk"; no need to worry because the two main characters are upheld by their charming chemistry and bravery against all odds. Other ally soldiers, supporting characters and special cameos weave in and out of their journey for a short amount of time; but are unforgettable.Standing among my top 10 for 2019, "1917" is also one of the best of the decade.Grade- A
After seeing trailers and reading other reviews, I was determined to watch this new movie in cinema. And it did not disappoint a single bit; I was on the edge of my seat the whole film. Mendes creates an ultra-realistic piece of cinema by filming in what seems to be one shot and giving the viewer the feeling he is part of the protagonists mission. It's a two hour rollercoaster through the dirty trenches of France, with not a single moment to take a breath. A gift from the Gods for the movie enthusiast, but also a thrilling experience for even the strangers of cinema.It remembered me a lot of Dunkirk, with similar claustrophobic feelings, by showing not only the true horror of war but also the pure loneliness it brings with it. The fear to die alone, to become a forgotten name, to become a meaningless casualty in a meaningless war. The film is so realistic that it often feels you're watching a documentary. The cinematography is a pure pleasure for the eyes; the glowing mist in the French hills, every detail is right, every expression and action of the extra's are right; I could go on forever, but long story short; Oscar Winner for best film 2019. And just in time released to make it a contender for one of the best movies of the last decade, if not off all times. Trust me, I'm not exaggerating. It's a true masterpiece.I highly recommend to watch the Peter Jackson documentary 'They Shall Not Grow Old', which also gives a great insight in the First World War. A war that is often over shadowed by WWII. Not only by cinema, but also by general knowledge. Not many people actually know how horrible the dirty, muddy trench war was from 1914-1918.
A high praise for Mendes to bring this world changing event so realistically to life, something that happened more than hundred years ago, but should never ever be forgotten.
I rely on imdb for ratings all the time, but never do i take the effort to leave one myself. I leave one for this movie because it really made an lasting impression on me. It doesnt happen often either.The level of cinematography, music, and sound effects will take you on an emotional ride of your life.This is just not a war movie, this is something more. Go live the experience.
Riveting.The "one shot" feel was awesome. Truly made me feel like I was right there for the journey (and a heroic journey it was).Definitely different than any war movie I've ever seen, and had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish.They could have drawn it out to make it a 3-hour long movie, but I'm so glad they didn't. The run-time was perfect.All in all it was a solid 9+.
It's a good movie the directing was impressive the acting is very good and the overall story is beautiful and sadMy problem with this movie it's repetitive and has some flaws in the writing and some scenes that are there just to impress the viewersOverall great movie but don't get excited to much
This movie certainly lives up to the hype and expectation given by the fact that they won the award for best drama at the Golden Globes last year. However, to say that this movie is better than Joker is well, I don't buy that as Joker has a better narrative and cinematography, but that is just my opinion. Firstly, I would like to make things clear that this is a movie about the humane side of war and the emotional toll it has on those involved within these wars and at its core, the human spirit to survive.
The actor that absolutely stood out to me within this film is definitely George Mackay whom I have never heard of or have ever seen him in many major films before this and it is quite shocking to say that as he is indeed a talented actor whom in my opinion, if not for his acting capabilities, this entire movie would fall apart as this movie is more of a character driven movie rather than one that relies heavily on the movie's narrative. He manages to convey his character's emotions through his body language and all credit to director Sam Mendes too whom chose to direct a movie that requires the audience to observe and pay attention to the character's rather than having the character announce his emotions as seen in various movies these days. For me personally, the stand out scene would be the scene involving George Mackay's character in an army truck and it is truly such a powerful and emotional scene.
Speaking of characters, I felt the use of cameos from major stars such as Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth and etc unnecessary as scenes with them last for approximately a minute or two and these scenes sort of stand out like a sore thumb in the movie as you know that it's just a cameo and these major stars are there for the sake of being there to provide the movie some extra dressing. Some may love this but I felt that these scenes were unnecessary and these actors could've been put to better use.
As for the most talked about point regarding this movie, this movie is edited in such a way that makes it seem like a one-shot. The entire experience was amazing and it draws you into the brutal minute-by-minute environment of war; from the casual conversations between soldiers to the nasty action sequences. I was wondering if all the events would take place within the movie's 2 hour runtime but they managed to pull off the passage of time absolutely brilliantly without having to break the one-shot effect they were really gunning for.
The cinematography was absolutely brilliant too, my gosh, this is a beautiful movie. I kid you not, each frame of this movie can be a screensaver and it is indeed an awe dropping experience. From the colour gradient used which is generally a sort of dull colour to depict the gritty environment of the battlefield to a beautiful flame within what is a dull environment (Not too experienced when it comes to colour gradients so this is the best I can do to explain it, sorry).
As previously mentioned, I now shall comment upon the movie's narrative. Well, it isn't anything new to be honest which is where I feel the movie severely lacks as the end goal is certain and you can kind of guess how the movie is going to turn out regardless of the movie's emphasis on the race against time to deliver the message. Furthermore, I did not feel much tension during the movie as I hoped I would and this is mainly due to yet again, the predictability of the movie's endgame.
Generally, at the end of the day, this is w a must watch. It may not be my pick for the Golden Globe award but my gosh, this is truly a cinematic experience you should not miss out on. Besides, it's January, all the movies out now can be missed out on and you probably wouldn't regret missing it; but this, this you cannot miss.
Breathtaking. Visually breathtaking. That's probably what I would use to describe the film. 1917 is a film that use a continouously long one-shot in its entirety, like Birdman. And the efforts to make that alone should be applauded. Using a simple story settings, 1917 soars in the technical aspect as well as the narrative.The film uses a very simple and easy to understand settings: deliver a message. The protagonist is basically a messenger. However, the mission is no easy task; making it a very good story to told. The film waste no moment in introducing its main characters and their mission, making you feel the importance of the mission at hand.This film is very gripping to say the least. The layers of the film is slowly peeled off, making it a very slow steady ride at first. It will keep you on the edge of your seat, just to occassionally push you back to the end of it. The sequence is well thought and set up, so much so that you'll feel the build up rising little by little.Another thing that I liked is the film uses very close shot to shoot the film, making you feel like you're there with the characters. It feels like you're riding a roller-coaster, and a very frightening one. Or like you're playing a World War 1 horror video game. Coupled that with the IMAX superb surround sound system, making it a very satisfying viewing and listening experience.The score of the film is also a main component in influencing your emotions. Whether to be sad, suspense or makes your blood pumping, Thomas Newman's score is there every step of the way. He knows when to use any cue to make you wary of the lying threat surrounding the main characters. Hats off to him.All in all, 1917 is a very immersive experience. This is maybe a once in a lifetime chance. I highly recommend you watch the film. Definitely watch this in IMAX if you have the chance to do so. It makes a world of a difference. Guaranteed you're not going to regret it. A 5 out of 5.P/S: I liked this film better than Dunkirk. But having said that, both aren't the same type of film and should't be compared because both are masterpieces in their own regard. Take that as you will.
Can honestly say it lived up to expectations! The cinematography is beautiful and it's an understatement to say the last half an hour or so had me on the edge of my seat!
What an extraordinary movie. I believe it's the most anxious and terrified I've ever been in a cinema watching a non horror movie. Everything works perfectly and smoothly that you just cant hate it. I believe the main ingredient for this masterpiece it's the long take that happens at real time with the plot. Outstanding work from the crew, the cast and Sam Mendes. Definitely deserves all the 10!!! nominations for this year's Oscars.
This is an incredibly personal movie. Everything in the picture is designed to make you an intimate witness: the writing, the performances, the cinematography, the editing (or lack thereof), the uniqueness of all the exteriors which never repeat, and it is incredibly effective. You find yourself holding your breath as the action plays out. The seed of this film came from the stories Sam Mendes heard his grandfather tell of his time as a message courier in the First World War. The partnership between Mendes and cinematographer, Roger Deakins, to create the movie as one long shot is award worthy and completely elevates the film above its genre. It's not just a war movie, or an action movie, or a thriller, or a drama. It's all of this things, and more. A truly intimate experience, I give this film a rating of 9 (superb) out of 10.
Mendes handles his subject with conviction and deep respect. He provides an inquiry into the resolve of human endurance through an unrelenting portrait of the Great War, delivered with great esteem for soldiering. 1917 is an impressive technical accomplishment. The execution of its concept, the appearance of a 'one-take' continuous shot that propels the viewer through the narrative into a meticulous designed environment. It demonstrates a level of ambition given the genre but feels natural for such a portrayal.
The continuous shot provides a subjective experience of The Great War. Often 1917 paints an abstract reflection of the Tommy's state of mind in its atmosphere. Its awareness almost primitive, operating on the fumes of instinct. The imagery conjures up Romanticism in its textual analysis provoking both beauty and horror. Mendes has command over the audience's senses with overwhelming audio-visual shock and awe!Praise will no doubt fall, and rightly so, on the cinematic prowess of Roger Deakins and the design of Dennis Grassner. Grassner provides an authentic quality that complements Deakin's lens. All of which immerses the audience in Mendes's world building. This is a finely tuned collaboration.
I like realism in my films and 1917 didn't disappoint. I was initially concerned by the trench shown in the promo film, but watching the whole film reveals its context.
The film kept my attention from start to finish, jumping in my seat in the underground bunker scenes. Nothing was predictable, and the film moved at a good pace.
The scene at the end where the troops prepare to go over the top was quite tense, the use of a whistle to signify the start of an attack sends shivers down the spine when you are aware of what it signifies.
There will be detractors stating its not as good as Saving Private Ryan, that is also a good film. There are people stating there are historical inaccuracies in 1917, well look up if there were any Tiger tanks in the American sector in Saving Private Ryan used in the final scene and you will find there wasn't, but that doesn't mean it wasn't a good film.
The reason few German soldiers are depicted in 1917 is because they had retreated to the Hindenburg line, if you look up any interviews with Mendes he will tell you he choose this particular time frame as the front line was more fluid and it enabled him to produce a film that wasn't constricted by a few hundred yards of no mans land. The Germans had withdrawn, left their trenches and were taking up positions in a well defended line, which incidentally is explained by the officer in the opening few minutes.Therefore it being April, and beyond the no mans land killing zones the landscape would be lush and green.
I saw a post on a review elsewhere where somebody was complaining the Indian soldiers turban had been tied in a modern fashion. Like i said I like realism in a film but there is nothing in 1917 that would make me sit back in disgust.
All in all a great film, would recommend.
I must admit I was apprehensive about watching this, but having read the reviews both my wife and I went yesterday.
What a magnificent film, really cannot be faulted and holds you from beginning to end.
I had tears in my eyes when it finished and thought about my grandfather who fought on the Somme and was invalided out due to 'shell shock' and this film brought home the terror that those in the trenches must have suffered.
Im so thankful that im alive in a time where movies like these are made. Everything was as realistic as it can get, the acting, cinematography, the sets, the lighting, it felt like I was with the characters like getting shot, and somehow could smell and feel everything the actors could. Im never gonna get over it. As a Sikh, seeing us being represented properly in a movie made me emotional. The soundtrack was brilliant.
A truly mesmerising cinematic experience. Watch it on the big screen if you can.
I hate the word 'gimmick' as it relates to filmmaking. Gimmick is an unconstructive word, something that can be tossed off to cheapen actual visions. 1917 is no "gimmick movie". It's an experimental grand slam that takes a chance on a unique visual structure and successfully moves cinema into new directions. The conversation around Sam Mendes' World War One drama has inevitably revolved around its audacious, single-shot framework. That technical feat is worth discussing. But so is the film itself and the way Sam Mendes weaves both camera and story together into a brilliant tapestry of beauty in the most hellish war ever fought.The bones of 1917 are familiar to those who have seen their share of war movies. It's World War One and there is a mission that has to be carried out. The British Army are preparing for an all out charge against the Germans. Little do they know, they are running into a trap. With communications down, two young soldiers, played by Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay, are dispatched into enemy lines to deliver the message to stand down. This type of story is not new territory for war movies. Saving Private Ryan chronicled a very similar mission, and Dunkirk involved similar themes of the affecting nature of battle. In the hands of a less capable, less creative director, 1917 might not do enough to separate itself from those towering films. That's where 1917's visual style comes into play. The movie is designed to look like one, continuous tracking shot. A gamble to be sure, but one that pays off.Cinematographer Roger Deakin's camera is 1917's ace in the hand. It moves fluidly through each set piece, keeping the action clear, informing key moments, and only drawing attention to itself when it should, in the grand emotional climaxes that litter the trek. That said, there are certain things you can't do as well with the one-take approach. It's harder to get those iconic, stand out images when the camera is so often in the same position; following the protagonists from behind or back tracking in front of them. Mendes can't as easily put the camera in interesting positions or angles when the characters have to be in frame 99% of the time. But what that apparent disadvantage does, is make the few memorable images there are, such as a cherry blossom "snowfall" or a ruined town lit completely by flare light, more special because they seem to spring organically from the world. We don't have the expectation that we're going to see art, so when it's there, it stuns.The real advantage of the camera is in how it intensifies the pressure of the mission. Being so intimate with the characters makes the explosive beats shockingly effective. I jumped out of my seat on more than one occasion. Also, the movie takes place in real time, making the major point of tension, the countdown to the dawn attack, all the more impactful. Here, the passage of time isn't imagined through age old editing tricks, it's really there. From the first five minutes, we get a refreshing sense that this movie is going to provide feelings unlike any other war film. You're locked into the mission immediately. The clock starts ticking and the movie never lets you out of its grip until the very end.The reason this novel experimentation never wears thin is because underneath the visceral excitement it creates is a major emotional ride. Chapman and MacKay are a solid step above the average young British actor, exhibiting welcome restraint in moments that could slide into melodrama. Thomas Newman's rousing score does most of the heavy lifting in that department, but the balance never tips to schmaltz. That is due to an authenticity rivaling Saving Private Ryan, the best ever cinematic approximation of war. The ubiquitous little physical details in the trenches and on the battlegrounds seem to inspire the actors. No one player feels out of place. There is an overwhelming sensation that this is what The Great War was like. The relative attention to realism, combined with thunderous sound design and real time tension, make for incredible immersion.To discuss this movie based on its cinematography alone, ignores how stunning the rest of the movie is, and the way every element works together. Forget the "gimmick" talk. 1917 is simply a brilliant, harrowing war film. The most unforgettable image, MacKay's character sprinting through the battlefield, with mortars exploding around him and hundreds of soldiers charging forward into certain death, is momentous not because of what the camera is doing, but because we were there with him in every moment leading up to it, and we feel its significance in the story. See 1917 for its exhilaration, its horror, and its beauty. There's no other film quite like it.92/100
This movie is utterly incredible. Obviously from a technical point of view. The editing is flawless. You can make guesses where the cuts were made logistically, but they really are seamless. You can tell that they really put a lot of work into the film and it was simply breathtaking. The "continuous shot" isnt a new concept but it was done brilliantly for a film like this. It's more than a cool technical gimmick...it really makes you feel like you're on this journey too. And the action, and tension just never lets off. Well, at least until the very end. You're just in constant fear and sadness for these guys. And George MacKay who pretty much carries this whole film is absolutely brilliant and I think should be getting more attention this awards season. If he wasn't good, I dont think the film would be as successful despite the technical achievement.If I had to mention one slight problem, is that if you have seen the trailers or even just THAT clip of George Mackay running through a battlefield with bombs going off (which is a brilliant scene) you know that he is alone. So *SPOILER* it wasnt that much of a shock when his friend died. It was still sad for sure. But like, I think it might have been a bit better if felt like it came out of nowhere. More like how George MacKay's character would have felt. But, honestly thats just one small gripe and I rather liked how the character's death was dealt with. I actually quite liked the scene right afterwards when he's in the truck and the other soldiers are having a conversation and joking around and then there's just Mackay's chaarcter (William) just sitting solemnly trying to process what just happened. Its a great juxtaposition. And then much later on when William is floating in the river, barely holding on and the cherry blossoms start falling down him. It felt like it was a symbol of hope or a message from his friend from beyond the grave to not give up. It was a nice and touching addition to the film. The only other small thing I will mention is that since the film seems to primarly follow William, a lot of the big name actors that you see on the poster or in trailers like Colin Firth or Benedict Cumberbatch for example feel like a cameo. In it for like maybe a 5 minutes and then gone. I mean, it makes sense story wise, but still a little, I don't know, jarring? But really, on the whole the film is amazing. If you want a film to put you right in the middle of war, then this is it.
I'm not keen on blockbusters. We always know the heroes will get the job done at the end so we just sit back and enjoy the ride. Nothing is different here aside from the fact that the journey we go on is a total mind blowing visceral experience that will keep you enthralled from start to finish. The sets are so immersive you feel as if you are actually on this journey yourself and the story moves along at just the right pace with a good mix of danger and tenderness woven in. The music is top drawer and the acting too. Rarely will you see a film with five of Britain's top actors in where each of them only gets two minutes screen time. Oscar will love this one.
This is one hell of a movie. A lot of care and detail went in to the making and telling of this story. The story has been told before, but never done like this. The visuals are stunning. The work in making battlefields from a hundred years ago must of been very daunting. Every detail is thought out and well made.Sam Mendes surely deserves another Oscar for making this movie. And, having Roger Deakins as the Cinematographer was a very good choice as well. He shot a lot of the Coen Brothers movies. The movie's non-stop one scene is nothing short of amazing as well. Finding the right actors was also crucial to the telling of this story too..Everyone gives a stellar performance. Wise choices indeed. Having 2 lesser known actors as the lead roles was thoughtful as well..having Colin Firth and Mark Strong only add to it..I strongly encourage everyone to see this film, even if your not a fan of war movies. If your a movie fan, you must see this movie.
I won't give away any spoilers, but the way they shot this movie is a game changer. You feel like you are IN the action. You see everything the character sees. This is a special movie and it's worth seeing in theaters. In fact, I think seeing it in theaters is a MUST! I will be seeing it again. I'm adding this movie to my top 3 favorite movies of all time list...
I've just finished watching the '1917' movie, it was exceptional. The one continuous shot was unique and worked perfectly; it also added to the realism making it feel like we are actually with the two main actors of the film. It would be nice to see more films use the one continuous shot in the future! Sam Mendes did an incredible job on directing this movie.The cinematography, editing and sound was perfect and it was aesthetically pleasing, I was immersed the entire time!The acting quality was surprisingly great for the whole duration of the movie. George Mackay played his role well! Everyone should go see this movie in the cinema for the best experience.I thought this movie was incredible and it is certainly one of my favourite war films, possibly the greatest. 10/10 from me.
I have just viewed the film that WILL WIN the Oscars for Best Picture, Director and Cinematography (and probably many, many more).Yes, 1917 is that good.A tour-de-force presentation of a film, 1917 tells the tale of 2 soldiers in WW 1 that are tasked with bringing a message across "no man's land" to prevent a company of soldiers from walking into an ambush.Director Sam Mendes (SKYFALL) chose to shoot this film in such a way as to give the impression that this film is just one long shot. While it is not (he shot it in about 8 minute bursts), the choreography of the action is staged in such a way that the cuts are seamless and unnoticeable. It is a master class in Directing from Mendes, for - though it is an interesting "gimmick" that puts us (literally) in the shoes (and steps) of the 2 young soldiers on their mission - this gimmick does not get in the way of the film. It helps and enhances the film, you can sit back in your chair and forget about "the gimmick" and just get wrapped up, emotionally, in the story that is being told.And...getting wrapped up, emotionally, you will be. For the story, events, struggles and triumphs of these 2 soldiers are brilliantly brought to the screen from Director Mendes and Cinematograper-extraordinaire Roger Deakins (14 time Oscar nominee - from SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION to his win, finally, in BLADE RUNNER 2049). These 2 (and their crew) suck you into the action and tensions of the situation. You feel every step that these soldiers take.Since you spend the entire movie with them, Mendes has done a tremendous job of casting 2 charismatic (but not overly so) actors as the 2 soldiers. Dean-Charles Chapman (Tommen Baratheon in GAME OF THRONES) is determined, focused and single-minded as the lead soldier on this trek - he has personal stakes in this mission - as his brother is in the invasion force that is going to be ambushed. Chapman does a nice job of finding the balance - and making a true person - out of a character that has a single, over-arching mission. It is strong subtle work.But, to me, the standout in this film is George MacKay (CAPTAIN FANTASTIC) as the buddy who is "brought along". This could have been just another "reluctant war hero" character, but MacKay brings a sense of decency and vulnerability to the early scenes of his character (where he could have just as easily played the "reluctant companion"). These nuanced character dimensions take root later on in the film and elevate this actor - and this role - above the norm.Mendes brings in a "who's who" of modern British acting stars to fill important extended cameo roles - Colin Firth, Andrew Scott, Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch all bring gravitas and heft to their brief appearances on screen.This is not the fastest paced film you will ever see - and I think that this serves the film well. It earns its pace and I was drawn in, emotionally, in a way that would not have worked had Mendes rushed the pace (especially early on).But this film (and Mendes and Deakins) shines during the battle scenes. Even though we are following 2 foot soldiers, they set up the boundaries of these battles in such a way that you understand what is going on - and what is at stake - at least to the 2 soldiers we are following. It is in these scenes that this film really finds its footing. I was drawn even further into the intimate, emotional stakes of these characters at those moments.A marvelous piece of film making that shows a Director and Cinematographer at the top of their games.Letter Grade: A9 stars (out of 10) and you can take that to the Bank(ofMarquis)
Truly a cinematic achievement. The cinematography and soundtrack are both top notch and really bring the film to life. The acting is also first class, and you really feel for the two protagonists and their seemingly impossible mission. A must see on the big screen.
This movie was absolutely astonishing. The visuals were amazing and so were the characters. Both characters allowed you to feel connected with them and it showed the chaos of war. I loved every second of this film and can't wait to watch it again. It was perfect. George and Dean are incredible actors who made this movie enjoyable and told the story emotionally but perfect.
Ignore the implausible 'boys own adventure' premise and just let this amazing film immerse you in the horrors that must have been WWI trench warfare. Magnificent cinematography and choreography take you on a seemingly unending 'ride along' with our protagonists as they negotiate a terrifying journey through a ravaged and horrifying region of war torn France. A must see.
1917 is a very good film in general, but it's the way it's shot that marks it as an artistically cutting-edge film. It brings the technical excellence of Dunkirk, with great war sets and brutally realistic depictions of the intensity of war, but intelligently turns to a humanist angle in telling a simple story of two men trying to help their country's men. There are no bad elements of 1917, but it's the phenomenal execution of the one-shot technique that makes it great. The tracking shots in the trenches made me realize how much less immersive it is to be constantly cut to the front of the next shot, rather than seeing the path the characters take. Given that it's this one epic journey, it is fitting to go on it with Schofield the whole way. The colors and big war shots (especially Schofield running across the war zone to reach the captain and him jumping into the river) were gorgeous. The score is essential, ratcheting tension up quickly in scenes like the rat trip wire and also calming it down in personal scenes like one character's death and when Schofield meets the baby and woman. War is so extreme and all-encompassing that it's truly difficult for any film to accurately capture it, but 1917 belongs up there with the best efforts. It is a film of brutality and loyalty, but above all it's a beautiful work of art about one of the ugliest subjects known to man.
I don't really care for war movies. With that being said, 1917 was really great. Epic cinematography makes this film feel very original and special. Would recommend to any war-movie lover.
The first perfect movie I've watched since the godfather part 2.
What a wonderfully crafted film! It was intense and engaging the whole time, with moments of fast paced action sprinkled throughout which really got the heart racing.Despite knowing very little about the two main characters, their realistic acting makes you care and worry for them. The one shot technique keeps you beside them and makes you feel like you're there with them.However my only gripe with the film is that it does slow down a bit too much once or twice. Thankfully this barely took away from the experience.Although it doesn't quite reach the heights of saving private Ryan or hacksaw ridge (for me at least), it is a groundbreaking achievement in cinema and an amazing ride! Definitely go watch it.
The film itself has a simple story and some of the acting at times was a little ropey especially the first half but still that doesn't take away from the mesmerising way this film has been filmed and quite frankly beautiful moments of cinematography despite the horrific landscape of war it was largely set in often taking your breath away. It honestly at times especially watching in imax made me feel if I was there alongside them. All star leads alongside this and it would almost certainly have been a 10 in my eyes but never the less a great film.
1917 is an incredibly immersive war movie that's intense, emotional and harrowing. Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay both give incredibly committed performances. Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Andrew Scott and Richard Madden all give brief but effective performances. It's extremely well paced, consistently extremely engaging throughout. Sam Mendes' direction and Roger Deakins' cinematography is incredible, crafting a film that seamlessly appears as if
it's one continuous take. The music by Thomas Newman is excellent.
I just came back from seeing '1917', and it's a tense, absorbing, grim, and yet inspiring 2-hour journey. The theater was packed, and you could sense that every single person in the audience was mentally and emotionally glued to the screen. It's a fictional story, but built from real elements that director Sam Mendes heard from his grandfather, who acted as a messenger during WWI in just the same way as shown in the film. The WWI setting and the basic storyline sound familiar enough, but it's all in how the pieces are put together, and having seen it I now know why it's a Best Movie of the Year contender.A bit more than halfway through the movie there is an absolutely riveting centerpiece: a few British and German soldiers are trying to get through a ruined French town at night without being spotted and killed by the other side. Half-fallen buildings and corridors of stone arches are illuminated by flickering light from bombs and flares that come and go while they hide and run. It's as if we've stepped into an eerie, lurid half-world from a fever dream. I've never seen anything like this before, and words don't do do it justice -- just go and see it. This scene when added to several others feel like a tour through the circles of Hell (as in, Dante). That sequence is almost equalled toward the end when, the next morning, the battalion goes 'over the top' from the trenches while one of the messengers, Will (played by young George MacKay) runs desperately down the line across them to deliver the crucial letter (a small part of that scene appeared in the trailer but the full scene packs a far bigger punch).Aside from the big set pieces, the whole film is beautifully constructed, seems to flow organically from beginning to end. Like the ads say, it feels like "one long take" (which it really isn't, but it goes further with that technique than any other film I know of). What that does do, however, is make the action relentlessly personal and individual with the focus on the two messengers, Tom and Will. The two lead actors MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman nail it as two ordinary soldiers asked to do things that no human should have to experience. They are not superheros: the real heroism, for them, is simply surviving and persisting through their own fear and confusion, long enough to get their job done. Bigger names like Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch, Richard Madden, and Andrew Scott fill roles that are essentially big cameos, but they importantly bookend the story.And I also want to mention Thomas Newman's musical score. It's superb. It's unobtrusive (or silent) when it needs to be, and epic when it needs to be: it emphasizes what's going on without taking over.100 years after the actual events, I don't know if it's possible to get any closer than this to recovering the lived experience of World War I from the viewpoint of the individual soldiers. A great companion piece to "1917" would be Peter Jackson's documentary "They Shall Not Grow Old" (2018) built from recovered and restored film footage taken during the actual war. It's brilliant too, but in a different way. But it verifies that "1917" almost uncannily hits the right notes. WWI can never be portrayed as anything other than horrific, but (maybe for that reason) it's been a magnet for lots of past movies good and bad. Some other recent films that use WWI very effectively though much more briefly in their storylines are "Passchendaele" (2008, Canadian-made), "Tolkien" (2018), and (yes) "Wonder Woman" (2017). But "1917" goes past them all.
1917 is stunning in both its visual impact as well as its acting. I have long been a fan of war movies that are done well and this film is the epitome of powerful storytelling of war. Sam Mendes' decision to use a single shot format carries the audience through the trenches with the soldiers. Their fear is palpable and translates from the screen to the theatre. And Thomas Newman's lyrical score provides a superb background to the story-never intrusive but enhances the action. I cannot capture the excellence of the two chief actors who set a high bar for the big names that support them in the story. 1917 is certain to be a classic-I know it will be one of my all-time favorite movie experiences.
Sam Mendes First World War epic is a visual masterpiece which warrants every inch of its award hype. This is not a film driven by introspective character narrative and for some this apparent lack of plot, will seem like a deterrent and boring for some. The film focuses on a day in Spring 1917 in France, following Lance Corporal Schofield (George Mackay) and Lance Corporal Blake (Dean Charles Chapman), being tasked by their General to deliver a message to a nearby battalion, to halt their forthcoming attack as it a trap. And from this point onwards the film follows relentlessly the point of view of the two men as they travel through their trenches, across no mans land and through the apparent abandoned enemy front lines.Mendes decision to film using long tracking shots, alludes to the idea that it was filmed in one continuous take, never leaving the leads sides. This, above anything else, has garnered much attention and has drawn criticism for favouring technological technique over narrative. But I would argue, far from detracting from the story, this type of film-making is a character device all by itself and adds to the individualistic war many soldiers endured. This is not your typical Americanised, action film since very little stylised action takes place, there is very little interaction at all within the entire film. Communication between characters is minimal, there are many fleeting interactions, even between named stars such as Colin Firth, Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch but this only adds to the realism the film is trying to portray.Following one man's journey, this is not about the holistic nature of war, it's an individual's experience. With that being sad, Mende's is aware he is making a film and utilises his hero with particularly unrealistic chases from enemy gunfire at mere yards away. There are moments that frustrate and where one would say the Schofield could not possibly survive but he is encapsulating the strength of human spirit, the heroic nature of soldiers, the sheer luck some soldiers experienced surviving a war they were not always prepared for. For many, the Great War was not as it was promised: for many they thankfully never even experienced the "big push" and fought of boredom and squalor more than anything else.Those looking for action are in the wrong film, they are in the wrong conflict and they are misinformed at what the years of trench-ware actually meant for soldiers. This was not something many men were proud of, hence a particularly poignant moment where Schofield scoffs at his war medals, for what use is a piece of ribbon to a family who will never have their son/brother/husband or father back? Many soldiers died pointlessly and were mere canon fodder for generals who had no idea what they were fighting nor what their plans were from one week to the next. The deaths in the film are not heroic in grandeur but they are in terms of human spirit and they stay true to how many young men died on the fields.1917 is about the individual, lived experience of war, a poetic and visceral display of the battlefields. Brave in its portrayal, realistic in its cinematography and above all else, a more than fitting homage to the endurance of human spirit.
It's not often a movie can touch you so emotionally and capture you, captivate you and hold you right in the centre for the whole two hours.
Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins have succeeded in this and with great achievement.
The Cinematography is beautiful, the music is heart pounding and builds your Adrenalin from start to finish.
The two leads are great and believable and there's nothing in this film I can fault.
I hope this clears the board at the Oscars as it truly well deserves 
I've seen tons of great movies but I have never seen a movie pull off a tenth of the shots from this movie. I am confused at how there where even able to film this. It's God danm gorgeous.
Just walked out of cinema and had to post a score for this. 10/10 doesn't do it justice, amazing cinematography, still don't know how it was done. Amazing direction, Sir Sam is a genius, taking an idea he's already tried in Spectre and broadening it out, the structure, the story. What a tribute to the young men that gave their lives for our tomorrow. Faultless.
I met extras who worked on it last summer and heard many great things about it, and it is good how they made it so quick.Soldiers walking out in the open really irritated me, not that I am a war expert.There was an electronic music cue at the start I felt was out of place and then I was mad because I had already ordered the soundtrack, but the score got much better.Some of the soldiers were considerably older than I would have thought, but I am no expert on the era. Chubbier faces than would be there I am sure.Otherwise I loved it and will see it again in a week or two.
Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester this afternoon - 1917. Throughout the years there have been many films, starring many people, and coming from many different points of view about the First World War. Without taking anything away from those film makers who have come before I can say this was certainly one of the best shot films I have seen for a long time. Following just two soldiers for much of the first half you get a real insight into the life of the individual. Yes we know thousands of men died on both sides but the way this film is shot isolates the very individual struggles and emotions felt by men under direct orders to carry out a seemingly impossible task. Even when surrounded by hundreds of other men there is a sense of aloneness emanating from the screen. I particularly liked how the camera angles changed direction whilst the soldiers were walking, one minute the camera is going backwards, the next it swings round as it allows the men to pass and you almost get a feeling of the cameraman trotting to keep up as they purposely stride along on their mission. Take a moment to look beyond the characters, note the detritus of war lying around, items of clothing, munitions, and so many bodies. Remember this is real, it did happen and note the horror of it all. Lots of big stars in very small parts, look out for Colin Firth, Mark Strong to name a couple. Well done Sam Mendes, you have excelled yourself with this masterpiece.
Where to begin? Perhaps the magnificent performances, the superb editing, the chilling score? All worthy contenders, however I must start with the cinematography. Wow. The whole film seamlessly transitions from one area to the next looking like one extended shot, apart from one prolonged cut a little over half way through. The camera soars and dips, making circles around the action, following the soldiers through the trenches and swerving around walls. It's an exceptional piece of cinema that immerses you in the picture, never feeling like a cheap gimmick.Apart from this, it's just a damn good war movie full of emotion and not shying away from the horrors of war. People die. People are wounded. As a Lieutenant sarcastically remarks early on, "Nothing like a scrap of ribbon to cheer up a widow." We experience a fragment of the war with our main characters, carried by a stand out performance by George MacKay. We feel what he's feeling and feel immense sympathy for him throughout. As well as MacKay, Richard Madden takes over the screen in his brief appearance.Sam Mendes manages to craft scenes so tense and full of suspense (aided by a terrific score) that they wouldn't feel out of place in a great horror movie and it fits the tone perfectly. In the middle of all of this, there are also scenes of beauty that show humans at their best. A group of people pushing a car out of the mud may seem relatively insignificant but it leaves a lasting impression. There's also a wonderful scene between MacKay and a French woman. 1917 is a film that's both haunting and poignant while being expertly crafted.
This movie is breathtaking. One of the most incredible cinema going experiences I've ever had. It is visually stunning, packed with great performances from the leads and some superb cameos (loved Andrew Scott) and it is a thumping thrill ride like no other. So gripping. So visceral. Still trying to take it all in. This could be one of the greatest movies ever made but need to see it again first.
What a great film, this film is not only beautiful and ingeniously made, but also a plea for a united Europe. Divisions give this kind of war horror. Sam Mendes remindes us of this with this film. 1917 is an total experience because of the way the film was shot, the sound landscape and the good actors. A film that can already be seen as one of the most important of the new 20 decade.
The movie is shot amazingly, the camera work is so great that you become speechless. You feel like the movie has been shot in one take. The way the story has been told and portrayed the WWI battle field is amazing. Hats off to Sam Mendes for this brilliant piece of work.
SYNOPSIS:
Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) are given a mission to deliver a message through enemy territory to stop advances on the German's as they are walking into a trap masked as a retreat. If the message is not received in time, 1,600 men including Corporal Blake's brother will be killed.REVIEW SUMMARY:
There is so much in this film to love. Obviously, although it's been done before, the form of directing where it appears to be one continuous shot throughout, really adds to the intensity of the film. The sound editing is done really well and the score is so good except for one scene where it feels like a very misplaced fantasy-like score. There are so many memorable moments in this film, but for me the film gets a bit slow for me. It's understandable as you can't have constant action from beginning to end for a film like this, but it doesn't disregard the fact that it does cause the film to get slightly boring for me at moments. If I was one that could get past those slow moments, this would probably be my favorite film of the year and so if you can really get on board with both the intense and not-so intense moments, you will love this film. The ending really topped off for me as well. A really good film and I definitely recommend this film especially in theaters and if you can, Dolby. 7.9/10.--------------------------------------BREAKDOWN-------------------------------------------DIRECTION:
Sam Mendes truly did something special with this film. Going with the one-shot illusion added SO much to this film. You feel part of the battle with the characters. This directing style for a war film really immerses you with the battle. The intense moment become that much more intense and it makes it feel that much more real. There's one moment where it fades to black and then continues right where it left off and continues the rest of the way as one continuous shot and it amazing to feel like your watching a live stream of two soldier's struggle with fear and courage while trying to get a very important message across enemy territory. Bravo on the direction here and I definitely feel Sam Mendes deserves Best Director at the Oscars.WRITING:
Normally, I'd go into detail with the writing, however, I feel if I were to get too deep with the writing that I'd be potentially spoiling the movie so I'll leave something short. I think the decisions made with the writing were delivered very good. As I've mentioned, there are intense moments and they are written very well. You don't know when things are coming and that leads to impressive payoff. There was a point during the movie where I thought of a story idea, based off a film like this, but then they literally did what I was thinking so... scratch that I guess.ACTING:
The acting in this is phenomenal. Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay were incredible in this. There was one moment where MacKay was supposed to be crying and it was an impactful moment, however, it wasn't the best as far as a cry goes. Damn, I must sound like a nit-picky b****, but hey it's important in my opinion. When someone cries I want to feel it and I could empathize and understand why he broke down, but I just put myself in that position and it wasn't really because I felt his pain specifically. Anyway, he was still very good and I really enjoyed Dean-Charles Chapman performance. I wouldn't put either performances up for Best Actor this year and that's really just a testament to how stacked that pool is this year. So many amazing performances including these, but I really feel this film shined through the direction. There was an incredible moment that did hit me in the feels at the end of the film with one of the actors and although it was very short, I loved it. I can't really expand on that here.
After being disappointed with Dunkirk, I took the reviews with a pinch of salt this time. This movie was a thrilling film which took you on an emotional rollercoaster. I could've given it an 8 or 9 as to get a 10 should be very rare but I feel that 10 was probably deserved as I came out of the film changed and for a film to do that it needs to be excellent.
1917, is a war film that adds something completely new and unique to the war genre. The idea of making it look like one take is genius, the cinematography is by far the best of the year, as it immerses you deeply into the film and the characters that make you almost feel like you are there on this journey. The film also has a moving ending that had me mesmerised by the time the credits rolled, that is due to the cinematography and the performances given in the film which were very strong, ending on one of the most nicest shots I have seen this year with a quiet moment that says so much when speaking so little. The production, and costume design were also fantastic and the score only enhances your immersion which is exactly what you want in a score.The weak parts to the film however, were there wasn't the greatest character building, especially in moments early on in the film, where I was supposed to feel some kind of emotion I didn't because the character development early on isn't the greatest. I believe as the film progressed this issue eventually sorted itself out which was nice, and also there were quiet moments in the film that felt they dragged on for way too long and needed to be shortened down a little to make a tighter packaged film.Overall 1917 is a film that I found used its cinematography in fantastic fashion and creates a war film that stands up with some of the best, due to its incredible 3rd act. This is pure film making class and will be something that will be studied for aspiring cinematographers in the future.
Great music, acting, directing, effect, photography, and editing. its faults are normal and very few dialogues, and the firs act was normal compared to the second and third. sam mendes deserves the best director (golden globs). as for the film, it was later
Saw this on January 9 in the theater. I was eager to see it, having seen many, not all, war movies, including recently the much-better film Midway.A quick review of the plot: During the World War, two British corporals are assigned to travel, by foot, through German territory to bring to a colonel, orders to halt an attack that is to begin tomorrow at dawn on April 7, 1917. Almost the entirety of the film deals with soldiers talking as they pass through all sorts of scenery trying to get to the place to deliver the message. They converse, go through abandoned German trenches, encounter numerous rats and dead bodies and occasionally live people, including a fighter pilot they see shot down in a dogfight. If you're looking for great wartime action scenes, look elsewhere.That's really about it. We get to know a tiny bit about the two lead characters, virtually nothing about anyone else. There are plentiful scenes involving soldiers walking and breathing heavily, many dizzifying scenes where the camera pans around a room or an outside scene. I know someone who is sensitive to even TV shows where the camera pans around and believe she would have had real problems with those oft repeated movements during this film.As one reviewer noted, there are many cliche moments in this film, the kinds of things you seem to get in almost every war movie. There are, as others have pointed out, many things that seem highly implausible or unrealistic.Now I loved the TV series Combat, and they definitely had an episode or two that bore a strong resemblance to what this film presents. Only Combat did it in a 50-minute (minus commercials) presentation. Picture this as a three-part Combat. It just seemed to drag along, the same plot, just extended over two full hours.For soldiers in a hurry to get somewhere to deliver a certain message to save the lives of thousands by calling off an attack, our heroes seemed to pause ever five minutes to do things they need not do. They also seemed to veer off course repeatedly, to go through every building close to their route. I kept wanting to call out, "Quit stopping for tea (actually a milk break) or to look through every building within sight. Just carry on with your mission!"Since this is a fictional film, we viewers are not even learning about an actual World War I battle, nor about the lives of real people. It was a visually stimulating film in terms of the bleak shots of battlefields and trenches and such. But I was just left with a sort-of empty feeling as it was concluding, like, "So that's all there is to this?"Had it been made in the early 80s, with an "R" rating, I imagine I would have heard some mild obscenities (of which we had many here) and a couple of F bombs. Since we are so much more sophisticated today, they must have had at least 65 uses of the "F" word, including one non-com who must have used over a dozen in his 2 minutes of screen time. Note to movie producers: You can make a realistic, earthy film without having to weakly resort to cussing nearly as often as this film does. They used to talk about "gratuitous sex"...this film truly had gratuitous cussing. It didn't advance the plot or develop the characters, it was just there for no purpose.I think my rating of 4 is accurate.
Very nicely shot and stunning Soundtrack but..
So many scenes seem too contrived and coincidental .
Left me feeling quite meh!
I believe that it was much much worse in real life with conditions beyond comprehension and this film does not seem to portray this at all.More of a Hollywood version of things.
Unfortunately not for me although im sure it will collect awards left right and centre.
Disappointing..
I saw this last night. Wasn't expecting much and didn't get much. Very little war action. Very little plot. Just kind of went along slowly. This story could have been told in a half hour. War movies last few years have been great but this one falls way short.
I wanted to love this movie. I wanted it to be the next great war epic that the trailers convinced me it would be, but in the end, it was a slow, methodical trip across the countryside with next-to-no combat and a focus almost entirely on dialogue. While that may be enough for some people, I look back to Saving Private Ryan and other masterclasses of the genre that save the character driven moments until after they have already shown you the horrors of combat. For me, the quotables and the character arcs did not feel earned, and the journey ended in a puff of smoke that dissipated unrealistically quickly.
The first thing anybody will tell you about "1917" is that it was filmed to look like one long take. It's the kind of movie that uses "making of" featurettes as part of its marketing strategy. Unless you really dig movies that are technically accomplished but not much else, beware. Remember "The Revenant?" Remember how whenever anyone involved with that movie talked about it in public all they talked about was how grueling it was to film? They didn't talk about the characters, or the story, or the themes, or the emotional investment. No, it was just a bunch of logistics about how to work in the cold.Yes, "1917" is a technical marvel, and I would probably recommend it just so that people can see it for themselves, as I'm sure a lot of people will be dazzled enough by it that they won't care that the gimmick came first and the story came later. My problem is that, for a movie that's supposed to make us feel what it's like to be dumped into the chaos of war, it feels so overly choreographed. The film never stops being impressed with itself, and as the camera tracks and swoops and swirls around perfectly art directed WWI battlefields, you can practically hear Sam Mendes cooing "wait till they get a load of THIS shot." I was so distracted by watching the gimmick that I never felt involved in the story.But maybe that's for the best, since there isn't much of a story to be invested in. Mendes went to the Steven Spielberg school of directing, where character motivations are so simplistic that a five year old could understand them. Thomas Newman provides a typically thunderous score that telegraphs every time it comes blaring on the screen exactly how we're supposed to feel, which can pretty much be summed up as "War Bad. Heroes Good." Roger Deakins, who deserves every ounce of praise he's sure to get for this movie, does create some beautiful and astonishing images, but the one-shot approach gets monotonous after a while and draws attention to what a contribution skillful editing would have made to the film's rhythms.One thing that surprises me somewhat is that among all the awards buzz this film is generating, none of it has been for lead actor George MacKay, who delivers a stunning and stunningly physical performance. Because the whole movie is designed to look like one continuous shot, he is by definition in literally every moment of it, and he totally carries it. If Leo DiCaprio could win an Oscar for grunting and grimacing his way through "The Revenant," why shouldn't MacKay be recognized for this?Grade: B+
First of all, let me qualify my rating of a "1" as a counter response to this junk being considered as the "frontrunner" for Best Picture at the Oscars and ranked #51 currently on the top 250. It's really about a "6"-"7", but many of the reviews and gushing that has occurred with this average movie are irritating and untruthful.Many years ago, a friend of mine got me to watch the movie "Atonement", which I had heard of but never saw before, and I was surprised a good portion of it had a lot to do with the WWI time period. Some of the more memorable scenes in that movie which made it stand out were based on events in WWI. While I didn't love Atonement, I could at least see why it was nominated for Academy Awards because it was artistically written and filmed with several layers and themes that stuck with you, at least for a little while after watching it. Well, Atonement never won any major awards, despite the nominations, perhaps justly so as although it was a pretty good movie, it wasn't all that.Saving Private Ryan, arguably the greatest WWI-II time period war movie ever made also did not win Best Picture at the Oscars. Both of these movies are at least twice as respectable and good as "1917", which except for the impressive one-take filming method, comes across often as implausible, dumb, banal, and believe it or not actually laughable at times with how ridiculous some of the scenes are. This movie actually borders on "Commando" territory with the main character's plot armor, and that's only one point of many with what is wrong with it.To even consider this movie in the same league as SPR is laughable in many ways. Even a movie I didn't like too much like Atonement, at least it had some depth and an actual script with character development. This war movie, 1917, has practically nothing except for the one-take clever achievement.It actually "tries" to add depth, but it fails when it zeroes in on implausible and cheesy scenarios with the milk-baby scene, the Indian winding up in the back of the truck just for PC-oriented people, and a superficial yet disappointing attempt at tying in themes of family and moral dilemma, especially during the final act. The way it handles these attempts at depth truly comes across in a manner in which it seems like the "target audience" of this movie is Marvel comic book fans and teenagers. The visuals are great, but it has basically no depth at all. It cheesily places good actors in "cameo" roles, when their acting gravitas should have been used in major roles somehow to add credibility to it, instead.I just can't believe the Academy might stoop so low as to hand this Best Pic when it really has a weak script and writing. It would only validate the fact that the quality of movies Hollywood has been producing the past decade or two has fallen officially so far as to reward borderline-Marvel-comic book films that play out like video games for teens as its Best Picture.
The "one shot" aspect of the movie was indeed well made, some individual great acting also, but the overall impression I got was nothing more than an ok but predictable and pretentious attempt to win a whole lotta Oscars. And I bloody despise the oscar w**re awards. It was worth the watch, but not more.
This, quite possibly, is the best made, directed and acted film I have seen in ages. The one shot filming technique was phenomenal, it put the audience right there with the characters and it felt as we were actually part of the film. The music score was a perfect undertone and built to a crescendo at the peak of angst. I highly recommend this film and if it wins Best Picture, etc, it deserves it!!!!
This is pure love for the cinema. Thanks Sam Mendes!
Unquestionably Sam Mendes' masterpiece. Film of unprecedented beauty that stands out every single moment of the journey, merging anxiety and curiosity, beauty and hope. Film that is worthy of the story of our nations we put behind us thanks to an exellent narrative by Mendes, narrative that is enhanced for every single frame by a surreal cinematography thanks to Roger Deakins, in which every single situation / emotion is clear and moving; as well as the overwhelming and anxious soundtrack that brings Thomas Newman's signature, music that verges on perfection, that accompany the scene, the frame, the dialogue. Minimalist for some reason, but rich of details while the camera goes behind our characters, nothing is left aside, literally nothing. Spectacular cast, especially in the complex where heavy names stand out, an exemplary cast to reproduce the story as it was, even the scene is stolen by George Mckay and Dean-Charles Chapman who offer tears and emotions never seen in a war movie. This opera goes to the fallen and not, now and forever. A perfectionist Mendes makes perfect this picture that goes far beyond expectations. Unquestionable masterpiece.
Everything about this film was beautiful. The acting was superb, from everyone. The cinematography and visuals were engaging and real. The music was perfect. I was seriously hooked immediately and the movie never lost me. George Mackay did a fantastic job. I really can't say enough good about it. I wouldn't say it was as emotional or intense as Saving Private Ryan, but it was just as good!
Amazing. Almost too good. Don't have much to say other than SEE this. It feels like a video game.
This movie is by no means better then saving private Ryan it is slow there are 2 action scenes and and there are less then 20 shots fired from the 2 men who are delivering a message most of it is walking with heavy breathing there are a few points that did get me a little bit interested but for me I was hoping for more this is not for everyone and and I will not be watching this again
This is an exceptional movie and work of art. While some may be critical of the true grusomeness and horror that was the first World War, I feel this movie captured aspects of it without glorifying it. You don't have scenes of soldiers in a trench being blown to pieces from an enemy shell, but you do hear soldiers speaking about it in a nonchalant way, along with the "gallows humour" that developed over the war in the trenches. There is horror all around you, and this movie does well not throwing it in your face but doesn't allow you to ever escape it.The other criticisms I can see comes from a character development standpoint. You are left not knowing much of the backstory to the main characters or why they behave the way they do. But in the first World War, where you could have 30,000 die in a single day for the British, human life did not have the value we assume it should. It's because of this that I think it is fitting to not delve into backstory and character development, since the recurring theme of the movie shows the constant waste of life and futility in these battles. However, I feel you get tremendous character development just by observing their behaviour, a tremendous accomplishment by the cast, where the viewer can predit their past by the way they behave in the present.I hope the success of this movie brings along with it more attention to the first World War. It has set the bar high, and has done a great service to future generations seeking to learn more about the history of World War 1.
Greetings again from the darkness. It's now been over 100 years since World War I ended. The Great War garners barely a mention in high school history books these days, and Hollywood has devoted much more time and energy to WWII. Filmmaker Peter Jackson did his part with last year's stunning documentary THEY SHALL NOT GROW OLD, a video and photographic look at the actual people involved in the First World War. And now, Oscar winning director Sam Mendes (AMERICAN BEAUTY) delivers another glimpse ... and another technical marvel.Mr. Mendes, working with Oscar winning Cinematographer Roger Deakins (BLADE RUNNER 2049) and Oscar winning Film Editor Lee Smith (DUNKIRK), has shot and edited the film to give the look of one continuous take in real time. Although used previously in such films as Hitchcock's ROPE and Inarritu's BIRDMAN, the single take approach is certainly no gimmick here. We open on two young British soldiers lounging in a prairie as they are summoned to report to the commander. Their mission is described as critical, as a British battalion is preparing to walk into a deadly trap set by the Germans. More than 1600 lives are at stake and the phone lines are down. It's up to Lance Corporal Blake and Lance Corporal Schofield to work their way across No Man's Land to the front line and hand-deliver an order stopping the attack. Oh, and one more detail: Blake's older brother is in the battalion he is tasked with warning.The real time approach serves the purpose of allowing viewers to take on the urgency of Blake and Schofield. We experience the tension and horrors of war. Barbed wire, booby traps, slushy trenches, snipers, rats, dead bodies, dogfights (the aerial type) and towns under siege all play a part here as the men rush towards their goal of saving fellow soldiers lives, including a beloved family member. Dean-Charles Chapman ("Game of Thrones") plays Blake, and George MacKay (CAPTAIN FANTASTIC) plays Schofield. We spot the personality differences between them. Blake is super focused and determined to save his brother, while Schofield doesn't welcome the assignment, but is a dutiful soldier and loyal friend.It's really the Schofield character with whom the viewer mostly relates. He's no super soldier or Jason Bourne-type, but rather a young man trying to stay alive and fulfill his orders. With the relentless pacing of the film, we feel the fear and admire the courage. There is an especially touching scene in a bombed-out town where paths are crossed with a French woman (Claire Duburcq) caring for an orphaned infant. It's a reminder that humanity still exists, even within the bounds of war.There is no clock ticking in the corner of the screen, but we know time is of the essence, and quite limited. The camera seems to be always moving forward, rarely allowing for us or the characters to exhale. As you might expect, running is done frequently - sometimes towards something, sometimes from it. Roger Deakins is in prime form here with his camera, and there are too many remarkable moments to mention them all; however, the river rapids and waterfall, and the town under siege at night, are two of the most incredible sequences I've seen on screen.Along the journey, some familiar faces pop up as military men: Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Richard Madden, Mark Strong, and Colin Firth. Although each appears only briefly, it's a testament to their acting prowess that each is memorable. The chaos and relentless terror of war is on display, more often than not. But this isn't a film designed to create deep thoughts or serious debates on the merits of war. Instead, it's meant to focus on one of the countless personal stories that occur during war. War is fought by people, not faceless countries, and each person has their own story.Non-linear story telling has been a movie-thing since even before MEMENTO, but director Mendes (and co-writer Kristy Wilson-Cairns, "Penny Dreadful") show us the true presentation of linear ... in the moment and by the moment. GALLIPOLI and PATHS OF GLORY are about the closest comparisons I can come up with, and the weight of the film is felt physically and emotionally as we are drawn in. The exceptional score from Thomas Newman (14 time Oscar nominee) serves to accentuate the chaos and relentless terror. It's a work of art and a unique viewing experience.
It's a nice enough movie to watch , if your expectations aren't too high .
Better yet, have no expectations at all, and a few drinks on a slow night when watching this .It's a war movie, that tries to be a special, a memorable war movie .Unfortunately, this desperate desire of the creators not only is omnipresent throughout the entite film, it is also a goal way beyond the skills of the makers .There are a few brief fine acting performances . Just not by the lead actor(s), who is (are) instantly forgettable . So forgettable, you have to remind yourself it's still the same character ( 2 of those for part of the film ) after you blinked .There also are a few very nice shots and beautifully put together locations .
It's a shame that the camera work and editing is so poorly done, you never really get a good sense ot them .It's an ongoing theme - the viewer never gets involved in the scenery, the story, the action, the mediocre attempts at adding depth to some situations .
And certainly not in the main characters, who appear like interns from catering were cast .As for the one-shot thing , it worked in a few scenes .
The technique was developed to add dynamics and/or density to scenes, that were usually fairly sort, a complex piece of a more complex overall concept .Here, the creators chose to go the easy way, and just threw that technique at the entire movie , whether it made sense or not .Apart from the film NOT being done in one single shot - for those who were fooled into thinking so - it also only works in a few scenes, and severly compromises the rest of the movie .
And even in those 'good' scenes. it really isn't very well done, and wasn't worth the effort . Mainly because it was a lazy, incompetent effort, the writing didn't match the camera work, and they just didn't try very hard .Above all, the movie is boring .
It's an unimaginative , cold and stage like presentation; stereotypical, stale and again - completely uninvolving .But at least we now know that the one-shot thing can be done very wrong - even when it's a fake - and should be used for different projects, and by better skilled creators .
So this is the new jay and silent bob movie ? Well its not so funny like the other parts maybe cuz Will Farell its not in it
This film is an immersive and wholly impactful experience showing viewers just how visceral and hellish it was to be in combat during World War I. Directed by Sam Mendes and stunningly shot by cinematographer Roger Deakins, this film tells the story of two young British soldiers who are given orders by their superior to deliver a message to prevent an attack in a seemingly distant area of France. The film is (mostly) shot and tightly edited to appear akin to one continuous shot that grabs the viewer's attention and never lets go.The intensity of the film is almost heart-stoppingly powerful. Viewers really feel the tension and anguish that countless young men were forced into during the war. The use of tracking shots and differentiating scope and scale further make the film's war action seem even more impactful. Its production design is outstanding, with unbelievably detailed recreations of various landscapes of the Western Front. Two the surprise of no one, Deakins' cinematography is remarkable both in its ambition and its execution. The film is incredibly well-acted, and also manages to develop its characters well, almost placing their current states of being into a figurative tapestry summing up the film's primary messages and intended takeaways about the war in the exact moment in which it is set. All of the film's scenes and major setpiece moments are superbly edited not only to look like one take, but to establish stunning tightness and cohesion to the narrative.While the film is undoubtedly great, it's not quite perfect because it could have used some contextualization about what exactly was going on in the war during this exact time in 1917. Even though I'm a history buff to some extent and knew the basics of that, I would have appreciated some more specific information. It would have been possible to do this without breaking the film's "one-shot" style, as such context could have been revealed through dialogue or visually. This is the main reason that, while a very strong achievement without question, this film does not quite rise to the level of Christopher Nolan's "Dunkirk," another visually immersive representation of a short time frame in a terrible 20th-century war. The time span of the film seems very slightly contrived as well.That said, this is probably the most unique and detailed portrait of World War I since "All Quiet on the Western Front," and I absolutely recommend it. 8/10NOTE: I saw an advance screening of the film in RPX (Regal's premium large format.) While the picture and sound quality were good, I still feel that RPX is inferior to Dolby Cinema and IMAX.
Fictitious war stories are generally not good and this movie 1917 is an example with what is wrong with recent war movies. The ridiculous story is implausible from the get go.A really good war movie is the recent Roland Emmerich movie "Midway" with a straightforward factual story and thrilling action and heroes that look like heroes. It's a travesty that 1917 won the Golden Globe and Midway didn't even get a nomination.There are so many holes in the story. Letting just 2 of them go is insane. The way Blake died was beyond irritating. Schofield's journey through sniper fire and river were just too unrealistic. Running through the battlefield at the end was just too much. Plus the elder Blake did not look like the younger Blake. Because things didn't ring true they weren't really exciting. Of course it is tense in the way you don't want him to die or get shot. But you know he will make or there is no movie so it wasn't the right kind of excitement.How not to make a war movie. Please don't give this one an Oscar.
A can appreciate why people liked it but a was too many times bored. Just didn't connect to the character emotionally at all. Over drawing scenes with a poor plot that seems very predictable.
Listen, it's not a "bad" movie at all; in fact, it is pretty good and pretty well made. Mendes is a good director so you wouldn't expect anything less, but wow this movie has major issues and flaws. I really did like watching it for "one time", but I won't ever watch it again, and that alone is the sign of a movie that is not very good, certainly not a "classic". Some parts are really frustrating, and that's never a good sign.The cinematography is brilliant and ambitious, but the story's implausibilities, poor character development, lack of realism, and deux machina really were a surprise to me since it won the Golden Globe. I was not expecting such an unrealistic film after it won the award. I actually now question the Golden Globe's motives and authority in handing out awards after this won. Cinematography, yes, but story and plot absolutely not.This is a big fail of a movie if they are taking it seriously and pawning it off as award worthy. It just does not suffice. In a nutshell, take 1/2 (half) of Saving Private Ryan for its quality, and nothing more.
Films like 1917 focus so much on style that they leave behind any narrative strength. 1917 plays like a Video Game, and would probably make a great 10/10 video game like Call of Duty. Now, from a cinema point of view, the cinematography, production design, and wardrobe comes together very strongly, you should probably wait h it for the "single shot" method employed. What doesn't come across at all is any sort of tension- any sense of true danger. Compare this with Birdman, where you actually feel emotion+tension despite the one continuous shot. The one-shot in his film is a gimmick a does not add anything. It is often distracting.
So they send two men over a hot LZ to warn the other company of a nazi retreat (trap). The planes did recon and reported it.
Why didn't the plane drop them a note... come on man... that is just a start...
At the start of the movie I felt the reality of the trenches was captured pretty well and the Saving Private Ryan type storyline was initially gripping to watch.From about the halfway mark the film went rapidly from realistic, to extremely unbelievable plus the scenarios and sets from that point forward looked like something from a stage show instead of a movie.Unfortunately the storyline faltered around this point and never recovered.I also felt that realism was sacrificed to ensure a diverse sprinkling of ethnic minorities were visible in the background and the fact that even local regiments seemed to have many regional accents all in together from Scots to Sikhs cheapened the realism.I get the directors reasons for doing so but I ended up finding myself looking for forced diversity when the plot went downhill, instead of focusing on enjoying the movie.
Technically it is a masterpiece, but you can't say the same about the story. It has its moments, but you have too often impression, it's just another war movie. Sam Mendes made better pictures.
I saw the high rating before I went to see this and hence my expectations soared. No doubt, the movie was beautifully filmed but it was just that. A thin plot and as I write this, I can't recall the ending even after watching it only yesterday.
1917 is the BEST war movie ever! Great job by the cast as well as great directing by Sam Mendes. I can see why this movie is nominated for 10 Oscars. I hope it sweeps the Oscars as it very well deserves to. GO SEE THIS MOVIE!
The camerawork makes you feel like you're there with the characters.
Speechless is how I would describe my feelings when this film ended. To watch this film in all its glory on IMAX is the only way to fully appreciate it. The sets are amazing, the visual effects, the greatest I've seen yet and yet I was unable to tell the difference between what was real and what was CGI. All who were involved in this masterpiece of cinematography should be very proud of what they have produced and they will surely be fully honoured at the next Academy Awards.I hope Sam Mendes continues to make more films of this historical significance in the future. We need to be reminded that war is hell and should be avoided at all costs.
1917 is about two World War I soldiers (George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman) who are given a very important mission: travel across enemy territory and inform the leader of 1,600 of their brothers-in-arms that they're walking into a trap. This is an incredible piece of cinema!!!This movie is really a ride with sort of a dreamlike feel to it as the characters are taken from one unpredictable situation to another unable to know if they'll encounter friend or foe.Director Sam Mendes already showed in Skyfall that he commands an excellent visual style but this is a whole other level. The movie is filmed to give the illusion of one full tracking shot. Every moment the camera looks like it's following the characters. It is quite an achievement. Besides the tracking, the film also does a great job of deciding what elements of the scene to focus on.The scenery in this is a thing of ethereal beauty. The characters travel through a constantly shifting landscape, from trenches to abandoned farms and so forth. Even the worse of environments look good. In my opinion, the war torn town at night scene is one of the best images in film history.The one aspect that didn't always quite work for me was the music. Don't get me wrong. it's not bad. The issue is that the tracking shot gives a very natural, engrossing feel to what's going on. Suddenly, the music will boom loudly and take you out it.Overall, I highly recommend this. This is a truly stunning flick.
Ignore the critics and the dumb ones who say it's too long. Since when is a film at 119 (that's 1 minute shy of two hours) considered long??? You people are simply impatient.Great camera work and the mission to get the message delivered by a couple brave soldiers under their duress and obstacles is the highlight of this masterpiece. Set in the year 1917 and during WWI, this is a must see!Best war film since Heartbreak Ridge and Platoon. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
Set in 1917 during the height of World War I, this one take movie is very well done and tells the story of a man on a mission to deliver a letter to his brother while all the fighting is going on . It's very surreal and I think its gonna win some Oscar's if it ever gets nominated for Oscars.
Similar story as Saving Private Ryan (trying to locate someone in an active war zone) minus 99.8 percent of the action.Boring and hard to watch.
I walked into the theater believing the hype and walked out bored to tears.
I just don't see what people like about it.?! I thought Dunkirk was much better.
Once again looking at at the 9 and 10 reviews of this one cant help but think the majority must be company shills pushing their company's product. 1917 is an OK movie perhaps maybe even a good movie but certainly not a great movie. A great movie has as its bedrock a great story line and plot. This comes up well short in the plot department. WWI was chaos without doubt but the military was not commanded by complete idiots as the plot line would have us believe. There is no possible such an incredibly import job would be handled in the way portrayed. The movie was full of cliches and the usual war movie tropes. 1917 has been promoted as a "one take" movie but ........it isn't. Dont get me wrong, the camera work is outstanding but the rest ...... not so much. The settings just failed to achieve realism in most cases .... trenches too clean for one thing. Even the No-Man's land carnage didn't look ...... right! The is a solid 6 and maybe I might be convinced to stretch it to a 6.5 but it certainly isn't a 10. An Oscar winner? Given the hype it could be a chance but the right movie quite often doesnt win the Best Movie Oscar, afterall Hollywood has always been politics over substance. One final note. The Helmets the Brits were wearing ....... something about them was not right and that was a distraction throughout the movie. A great movie would get the details right.
Had a privilege to watch this extraordinary movie about war, survival and friendship. Scenes are not overpowering and they are appropriately selected for the movie. Good acting with nice views of open country. Screenplay is topnotch. Highly recommended.
I found this unbelevable, silly and predictable. The attempt to make it look as if it was made in one single shot was distracting.
As usual with movies today , great cinematography brilliant shots and details but poor understanding of actual history. Movie filled with cliches and tropes. As a little story is nice and emotional but has no substance within the historical context. NOT for the hardcore history buffs like myself. I've tried to be objective and gave it a 4/10.
Technically speaking in terms of cinematography, 1917 is an amazing achievement, with a near flawless implementation of the highly publicized one-take illusion, and some truly gorgeous camera perspectives.Unfortunately, that effectively summarizes the near extent of the film's virtues.When matters relating to actual substance come into play, the movie embodies a redundant retread of tired war-movie clichs, improbable scenarios, and with a smattering of nationalistic propaganda thrown into the mix.Unfortunately, Sam Mendes has managed to pull every brand of "hip" and "edgy" war movie trope out of his narcissistic rear end as to delude impressionable masses into mischaracterizing this work-of-art as the greatest and "most realistic" war movie ever made.Thus, this film will likely wind up securing an Academy Award for "Best Picture" a meager few weeks into the authoring of this review. But, hey, if "Crash" can do it and "Forrest Gump" can do it, so can "1917"!First of all, the movie fails where so many others have succeeded in terms of accurately conveying the horrid conditions of trench warfare. While real soldiers of the era were forced to contend with knee-deep mud and a prevalence of rats, 1917 depicts the trenches as merely the biproduct of less-than-luxurious and minimally damp conditions, complete with make-up work that depicts British soldiers and officers as extensively well-groomed and practically ready for a "night on the town", so to speak. This, notwithstanding the fact that a total of about six (evidently clean and well-cared-for) rats show up in the entire movie.While barbed-wire injuries were largely deemed an "occupational hazard" so frequent as to motivate the majority of troops to shrug off such occurrences as meager discomforts, one of our esteemed protagonists (McKay) winds up sustaining a meager prick on his index finger and proceeds to whine about it for several minutes.The atrociously written screenplay is turgid and thoroughly superficial, replete with an overabundance of redundant observations, simplistic deductions, and such a prevalence of one-syllable words that the script could have easily been crafted by one so bombastic and inarticulate as Donald Trump.And then, there's the tired regurgitation of the "barbaric German" stereotype.When a luckless Albatross D.III is shot down during the course of a dogfight, the burning aircraft proceeds to crash within the immediate vicinity of our heroes, leaving these courageous British lads to epitomize the "nobility of king and country" by humanely extracting the German pilot from the flaming wreckage. No sooner has one of our protagonists rushed to a nearby well to fetch their esteemed adversary a pale of water than the "sadistic Kraut" elects to repay their generosity and selflessness by literally stabbing one of them in the back (well okay, technically in the front).The only other instance of an up-close-and-personal encounter with those "Dastardly Boche" embodies yet another cliched affair. In another selfless inclination to show mercy to their sworn enemies, our sole remaining hero pins a young German soldier to a concrete pillar, clamping a hand over his mouth and silently gesturing that he keep quiet to refrain from alerting his nearby compatriots. Predictably, the German soldier nods in compliance, our trusting hero removes his hand, and the double-crossing "Fritz" proceeds to shout "ALARM!!" toward his fellow comrades, leaving the British solider no alternative but to strangle him in silence.Another stupid rehash of overused World-War-I-movie tropes concerns the obligatory encounter with the helpless French peasant and her child, who inexplicably seems to be taking refuge in the confines of a long-since devastated town which appears to have been evacuated eons ago.Predictably, the two proceed to engage in sugar-coated banter through some obvious language barriers. The soldier compliments the beauty of her newborn baby. The woman gushes praise over the troop's kindness and bravery. The noble lad supplies the girl's offspring with some much-needed milk. The two exchange innocent smiles with each other. And blah, blah, blah; you know the drill.But probably the biggest disservice that this movie provides to the "war to end all wars" is the fact that elects to finalize on a happy ending. Had the operation failed and the British division become decimated in the wake of German deception, the film may very well have left a haunting impression on viewers that properly hammers home the tragedy and senselessness of the First World War.Speaking of the ending, the resolution in question is supplied through yet another hammy and improbable scenario, in which the exhausted hero arrives at his destination and comes face to face with the resident Colonel (Benedict Cumberbatch, doing his best Benedict Cumberbatch impression), who initially declines to read the General's explicit instructions to halt the impending offensive."I've heard that all before!!!", he declares in defiance.While the chain-of-command should have easily presented sufficient motivation for the Colonel to at the very least consult the orders being presented, it's ultimately a different route which finally convinces him."Sir, it's a trap!!", the Corporal intones, leaving Cumberbatch to turn around in perplexity."WHATT?!!!" he scoffs.Evidently, the Colonel seems utterly flabbergasted by the "inexplicable" notion that the Germans might actually be utilizing tactics (who would've thought?!!). At that point, he proceeds to snatch up the letter and shortly thereafter administers long overdue orders for his troops to stand down.While not as "hip" and prone to 21st century gimmicks, there are tons of WWI movies out there which are far better representations of a conflict in which so many lives were needlessly sacrificed for elusive political objectives, and most importantly emphasize the futility of this particular conflict. For a more meaningful consultation on the subject, go see "All Quiet On The Western Front", "Gallipoli", "They Shall Not Grow Old", "Journey's End", or even the 1976 aviation endeavor "Aces High", to name a few.All of these alternatives (and more) embody a far more meaningful dedication toward the four-year tragedy of "the war to end all wars" than the grotesquely overrated "1917", which truly epitomizes the essence of a "style-over-substance" flick.Feel free to gawk in amazement at the gorgeous lighting and cinematography, coupled with the visually impressive implementation of the one-shot effect. But don't be duped into the notion that this movie teaches anything meaningful about the First World War, because it doesn't.
I don't understand the great reviews. The cinematography was a 10. I'll grant you that. But the stories dialogue was mostly uninteresting. It was very slow and talkie.The last half hour was decent though.
Basically the movie lacked drama. That would seem impossible in this kind of movie.
Sorry, but I wanted to love it and was very disappointed.
Well, my first review... this is a ps6 game without gaming.... are you joking?
Then they tryed to loop it lol, oh boy... best regards and play the game even if urnt playing it.
The cinematography and sets were unbelievable. Go see it just for that. But the entire film was fabulous.
Appalling film, slow, lacking script, storyline & totally unbelievable events.
Dumbest war movie I've ever seen. Loaded with cliches, like the girl in the farmhouse with the baby, him being shot at a zillion times and surviving, jumping off a bridge into a French river that becomes a raging rapid culminating in a ,gasp, hundred foot waterfall. Anybody ever see a river with rapids in France? Or a monstrous waterfall?
The cinematography was terrific but the story was lame beyond words. Oh, did I mention the German plane that just happens to crash into the barn where the two doughboys were standing?
Terrible writing
1917 is in itself a pretty decent action movie: tension building is well done, long tracking shots through the trenches, and even a few outstanding scenes reminiscent of the better work of Bresson, like the bridge crossing scene. However it also has several flaws, ranging from minor to more irritating. It seems the script was not well researched, and this is not Kubrick first reading several years into the subject matter, and then coming up with something perfect.First, the hierarchy as portrayed in the movie is incorrect: WWI meant strict hierarchy, it seems very unlikely orders from higher up would be ignored or reflected upon. In WWI the battle field was a reflection of society at that time, from upper to lower class. In Paths of Glory, by now the benchmark for WWI movies, we see the arrogance of the upper levels slaughtering thousands of soldiers for nothing. As Scorsese noted about Paths of Glory: "It was so honest, that it was shocking, and what made it even more shocking, was the nature of the way it was shot, the use of the tracking camera and the trenches".Then, the portrayal of the Germans is more WWII-like than WWI: Soldiers from Europe went to the battlefield in WWI seeing this as an honor to defend their homeland, almost like a football match. They were waved out like heroes, most were very nationalistic at that time. If you have seen the excellent Peter Jackson-documentary They Shall Not Grow Old, you noticed little hate between Germans and British. So, the stereotypical Hollywood bad German is driving the action once again in this movie. To the scriptwriters I would advice them to read a history book about the matter.Another inaccuracy is that individual ethnic soldiers are written into the script, maybe to reflect and conform with current society's ethnically mixed makeup. And although groups of colonial soldiers fought in WWI, they mostly did so in their own regiments, just as society was organized then. Few of them fought as individuals in the main ethnic British group.The story contains some odd situations: Wouldn't it be better for the Germans to catch Schofield alive for interrogation, he also goes through an unlikely amount of luck, and after the river scene he ends up just in the right place. The village looks by the way too much like a film set, and some other sets do not look very realistic either.Then the much discussed tracking shots. See again Paths of Glory: The tracking shots there have more tension, more dynamism, and more speed. Here they are dull. I was somewhat disappointed overall in the work of Roger Deakins here, take Sicario as an example of what this man is capable of.Mendes started his career with an almost perfect script, that was also well executed (American Beauty). Since then he thinks he is a great visual film maker, the problem however is that a guy like Nolan surpasses him in both writing and visual execution.
So many parts of the movie were extremely frustrating. So much time walking and talking but not really interesting dialogue about the characters or creating a storyline other than heading to give the note. I watched it but didn't enjoy it and would not watch it again. Im still waiting for an Academy Nominee to really stand out this year...they have all been about a 5 for me. Except Bombshell..that was awful it was a 1.
Over rated hyped . seen far better ww1 movies. gallipoli for one far outshines . 100.000 000 budget jeez. poor.
A war that is now a century old (and therefore no longer widely understood) is vividly captured in this stunning dramatization by Sam Mendes. It portrays the journey of two British infantrymen who are tasked with the near-impossible assignment of alerting another unit of an approaching trap. The one-take film focuses on their grueling slog across no-man's land to the other unit's location. Along the way, their path encounters many instances of danger and surprise.Not always easy on the senses- in fact rarely so- this film gives one a first-person perspective on how hellish and miserable this war was. And although the story is about this particular conflict, one gets the sense that many of the realities of war in this film are still applicable today, a century later. That's what makes this such a startling film experience. As for Roger Deakins' cinematography, it is every bit as breathtaking as one would anticipate from him. Highly recommended to those who are familiar with this part of history and to anyone who has served in combat and who would know the horrors that are portrayed here. And recommended to everyone else.
Wow best picture? Seriously. The Britts are capable of making great war movies. I'd consider Enemy at the Gates a great movie and Dunkirk pretty close to a great movie. If you go into this thinking that it's going to be this action packed fantastic war movie with epic battles, you will be disappointed.
First off they send 2 morons (9 miles away, not km's) to save 1600 lives. Not 4 or 5 pairs of soldiers, just 2 idiots. One gets killed helping the enemy who clearly has a bayonet dangling on his side. They both almost get killed before that from a rat tripping a trip wire that they were standing there looking at. They were just watching it go towards the wire. Dumbbutts, just pick the damn rat up and throw it against the wall. In one scene, the guy that makes it is in enemy territory, he clearly see's a German walking over to him and he just stands there until the German starts running at him and shooting at him. He somehow gets away. Later he's choking out an enemy and a completely inebriated German comes stumbling over, he can't see the Britt at all. All dude had to do was pick up the knife right next to him, stand up and slash his throat with one backhand move. He had a 99% chance of killing that man without any problem. Instead he just runs by him and of course the German yells out to his friends and the Britt runs away miraculously avoiding many shots from multiple enemies. In another scene the Germans shoot flares and that's when the dude decides to run for it. Again somehow gets away unscathed after being shot at multiple times. Hello?! wait for the dark dumbbutt. Anyways, not what I expected. Very slow for the most part. I was falling asleep. If you don't like war movies you will probably like this movie.
As stated in the title, the camera work is very good but the movie is spoiled by some unbelievably stupid plot twists. I don't want to ruin the review by adding spoilers but just give the movie a look (it is watchable because of the great camera work) then, as it progresses watch all of the things that happen which defy logic, from the truly implausible to the comic. It ruined what could have been a great movie.
I've never left a review, but this one deserves all of the praises. It's one of the most beautifully done movies I have ever seen. You feel you are right there with the soldiers, getting completely immersed. The camera work, the music, the scenes, everything was on point. The two hours fly by so quickly, in the best way possible. There isn't a moment that you feel you can look away. Watching it a second time, you can truly pick up on the subtle actions of the character Schofield and why he seems shut off. You can better understand Blake and his intense desire to just go without stopping. The characters compliment each other greatly, and the actors were brilliant. Very well done!
This movie will leave you absolutely drained by the end of the 2 hours in the best way possible. The single continuous shot throughout the movie makes you feel like you are a part of what is happening which comes with the anxiety and anticipation of what is gonna happen next.This is a visually stunning masterpiece and definitely a must see
I was skeptical if it would live up to the hype it had received. It did. It absolutely did. It felt like you were there. It's one of the most amazing movies I've ever seen.
This film told a great story. Filled with a rollercoaster of emotion. Not much action, but that did not take away from the film at all.
Even though the film reminds you of the death and futility of the First World War as Kubrick did in his laudable film "Paths of Glory," this Mendes film is reduced to mere war heroics that will please a viewer seeking entertainment without much reflection. The saving grace of this film is that the heroes are the foot soldiers and not the top brass of the military. The music was awful. The script is hilarious (it includes a pail of drinkable milk, with no milkers in sight or likely to be nearby and a single cow (without a calf) grazing--just to prop up the weak plot that allows a soldier to eventually feed milk to a starving infant!
An incredible movie which will leave you exhausted.The camera barely stops moving forwards for a second and you are propelled through a journey along with the soldiers that is worth watching more than once.Loved it!
Not sure how a movie with so many actions scenes can be so boring... Just a noisy, busy pointless mess with no real plot.
Truly an incredible movie.From the beginning, you are taken on a near-impossible journey with the main characters, and apart from a couple of quiet moments, the stress level remains high.Every detail, from the lighting to sound effects to the variety of characters, keeps you on a tense roller coaster of emotions, hoping for the best but anticipating the worst.I wish more movies were created to such a high caliber.
Mark my words.A little better than Parasite.
This film made me cry, laugh, feel desperate, and angry.It's so well done, I felt like lasted 15 mins.10/10 would recommend.
1917 is a masterpiece, you must watch it in the biggest screen you can get.
The cinematography, acting and the music are all on point.
The last scene will give your eyes a photography pleasure that you probably never felt. Sam Mendes created something that I hope will go down on history as one of the greatest war movies ever made, if not the best one.
Go watch it.
This has to go to my list of favourite films of all-time. Feels like you're there with them. Great cinematography.
1917 is a triumph in all levels. Filmed as a unique shot, it puts us inside of the anguish, cruelty and adrenaline of war.
We follow two English soldiers with the duty of delivering a message to a frontline battalion to stop him from falling into a trap which will cause a massacre in case they do not deliver it on time. Since the first moment until the end, the cameras follow untiredly the two soldiers in their almost impossible demand.
What is more impressive in 1917, besides the technical prodigy of tricking us into believe it is all just one shot, is the realism it paints this story and emerge us into it. We end up living the same as the two soldiers. Accompanied by the extraordinary music by Thomas Newman and the usual expert cinematography by Roger Deakins, Sam Mendes' prospection through the fields of the Great War is truly remarkable.
Amazing film! The cinematography is out of this world.
Not what I expected but that's not a bad thing the fact that the camera stays on the main characters feels like that you have gone on this journey with Blake and Schofield through the front line and trenches was brilliant it was an exciting film as you didn't know what would happen next.The cinematography was fantastic
As far as my recollection goes, 1917 is one of the best WW1 movies I have ever watched. Directed by Sam Mendes, who has given a wide variety of genre movies, I knew I'm in for a treat. Coming to the plot of the movie, it's straight forward. There are no twists, turns or cliff hangers. So yes, the highlight of the movie is not it's story but the way in which a simple plot was presented to the viewers.Using the concept of 'One shot' editing, the film is captured in one continuous motion, where the viewers are experiencing the movie in real-time. It is flawlessly executed. The kind of tension built at particular scenes in nerve wrecking. Cinematography gets a big thumbs up. Music composed fits really well into the scene (especially a folk song sung in the movie).Acting by the two main leads is great. Unexpected and surprising cameos.Top contender of oscars.
On the same day that the United States declares war on Germany, two young British lance corporals are faced with an apparently impossible mission: to cross the french battlefield carrying an order to cancel an attack and prevent the massacre of at least 1600 british soldiers.Set in the penultimate year of the First World War, 1917 is one of those films that arrest the viewer in the first minutes and then drag him up and down without giving him time to breathe.Merit of director Sam Mendes (American Beauty, 007: Skyfall), who also signs the script, based on stories told by his grandfather, a former Great War fighter.Recorded as a great sequence shot, with really imperceptible cuts, 1917 throws the audience into the drama of soldiers Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman, from Game of Thrones) and Schofield (George MacKay, from Captain Fantastic) on their journey through a France in pieces, which will test their beliefs, courage and friendship to the last strength.The cinematography of the veteran Roger Deakins, an Oscar winner in 2018 for Blade Runner 2049, is a complete show apart, always leading the narrative to the best of the script, at the right time - there are no mistakes here.With 1917, Mendes managed to make not only one of the greatest (and best) war films of all time, but also present the audience with a great cinema class and a true dramatic experience. An instant classic.Let the Oscars come.
This tells a poignant story that touches you. It does so by being human, and not with blood and flying body parts. I was touched to tears in the end.
Best direction, best cinematography, best actor, best movie.This is a phenomenal film that reminds me what good cinema should be.This is not a feel good movie. But it tells the story of WWI in gritty reality. The effort and thought that went into the making of this film, to make you realise how desperate the conditions were, were worth every second.I'd recommend you watch a trailer and some of the YouTube videos on the making of the film before you see it. It wasn't quite shot in one continuous take, but it feels like it.George MacKay deserves an Oscar nomination at least for this. His exhaustion at the end was palpable. Amazing film - it's the best 'made' film I have seen in at least a decade. Go see it.
Caught this one a little late because I wanted to see it with my dad. Getting to see it in a theater just enhanced the overall experience. If you want to see this, make an effort to see it in a theater. The number one thing that the theater enhances about the movie is the cinematography. This is the movie that deserves to win Best Cinematography at The Academy Awards. At one point of the movie, there is a straight 30 minutes or so that is the best cinematography of the last 2 years by a landslide. You learn about the characters and their dynamics with eachother through their dialogue and how they react to the situations they are put in. The score was used so effectively and made the scenes so much more intense. Also, it (the score) was very good. I wanted to stay for the credits because I wanted to listen to it. I can't decide if this movie, Marriage Story, or Joker should win Best Score at The Oscars, but I'd be happy with any of these. The sound mixing was another extremely effective aspect of this movie, and to quote my dad, "The gun shots are the most realistic I've ever heard." This movie should absolutely win the Oscar for it's sound editing. I also really hope that the movie wins the Oscar for Achievements in Makeup and Hairstyling. All of the dirt, blood, and water in this movie looked so realistic and amazing, but Bombshell will most likely win the award. This movie, Parasite, and Knives Out are all tied for me as to what I think should win Best Screenplay. And finally, regarding Best Picture, as long as this or Marriage Story wins, I will be happy. And to top all of these things off, the movie takes place on my birthday.
Great plot, superb acting and camera. Good music. Just don't expect 2 hours full of war battle action - that is not the purpose or the focus of the movie. But rather to tell a story about two men on a desperate mission and the consequences tied to that.
The movie, 1917, is a fine example of both the art and craft of film making. Human tragedy is part all life and will always remain so. Although we always know how things will turn out, we return over and over to tragic stories.
It felt like this film was trying too hard to be stylistic and artsy rather than involve the viewer emotionally. I really didn't care about the protagonist/s much because there was very little character development and a lot of potential opportunities were lost when they killed off Lance Corporal Blake. The movie was just basically about one man's survival from one scene to the next and the filmmakers weren't adept enough to create sympathy for the lone surviving protagonist in my opinion. It's difficult to develop a character that way but it can be done as with films like the Revenant, Castaway and Naked Prey. 1917 felt more like an excuse to show off cinematography and create set pieces rather than tell an interesting story. I'm giving this film a C+/B- because there were some good scenes and a lot of impressive work went into the historic recreation of battlefields
This film was suspenseful from start to finish. You really rooted for the two actors and felt their fear and exhaustion and adrenaline. It had great use of music to heighten the suspenseful nature but contrasted the movie with softer scenes like the woman and the baby to remind us of humanity and the harshness of war.
The actor George Mackay is brilliant and you really felt his fear throughout the whole story.
This film also helps those who have not been to war nor had family lineage who was in the army, empathize with the experiences ppl have in war and help them understand the sacrifices ppl made during those times. It also shows the senselessness of war and the small amount of power a soldier has in relation to his superiors and circumstances of politics.
This movie was brilliant and very emotional. 10/10 must see movie
This movie starts and does not stop! The suspense rivals an intense Stephen King horror movie, except this is every bit the most realistic suspense you can experience on film. The acting is fantastic, the story is exceptional, but the setting and camera work puts you there. I felt transported back 100 years to the Western Front and the hell, anxiety and horror that the First World War truly was. The characters are likable and engaging. This movie rivals Saving Private Ryan in its intensity. It also has occasional subtle laughs to break up the tense plot. There are hints of warmth and humanity in an otherwise dark, cold brutal war movie. The best movie I've seen in a long time. Highly recommend!
Im in shock of this masterpiece, im going to be honest, first when i saw that 1917 was nominated for many academy awards and it won the golden globes for best picture and best director i was a little bit confused cause i think that the director doesn't deserve that, and i said to myself, is it that great?! I dont think its that great, its just a movie about a guy who wants to deliver a message to save 1600 of his fellow comrades. but after i watched this movie im proud to say that this movie is one of the best movies that i have ever seen in my whole life and its for sure on the list of my top 5 favorite movies.1917 is a movie that shows you every single thing that every single soldier used to go through during world war 1, really enjoyed every single thing about the movie from the music to the customs to the cinematography to scriptwriting. The movie shows us the disgusting stuff that they went through. This movie is so deep and emotional, 2 hours passed by so fast i didnt even feel it, i didnt even want the movie to come to an end. And i saved the best for the last, the fact that the movie is a "one shot" is just unbelievable, you are literally there In every single thing they are going through or doing, some people will say that its boring (because of the one shot), but the director wants you to be there in every single scene and every single detail thats why its a "one shot". A perfect movie that u have to watch in the big screen (Would be way better if its IMAX) unless you wont have the perfect experience. I wont be surprised if this movie wins many academy awards because it really deserves it. Hats off to all the cast & crew, Thank You for this masterpiece.
What a magical 2 hours this movie delivers...and it goes by fast!
I have never seen a war movie that better telegraphs what it's like for young men in combat, and tells the story through characters you care about. While the horrors of WW1 are there, images are darkened so you can keep your eyes open rather than shutting out in-your-face gore. The acting is superb, soundtrack gorgeous, and cinematography amazing. All four of us loved the film, saying after to each other, "everyone should see this", and feeling inspired to read up on WW1 history.
Wow. This movie is impeccable. It truly blew me away. I have never seen a movie filmed like this in my entire life and it is done so brilliantly. The entire movie is made out of one take scenes, meaning there is no cutting camera angles and editing. This strategy keeps you locked into the scenes and make you feel as if you're watching it in real time. I think this movie is legendary and probably one of the best war movies ever created.
Here we go
1917 is the war movie I've been waiting for I think that this was very history accurate and really showed what happened in ww1 I loved the visuals the story the cinematography the music all was great It was a great movie 1917 gets a 8-10 amazing movie what a way to start the year for movies I hope there are more like this this year
One long shot from start to finish, you follow two men on a journey across enemy lines to save an entire battalion of men including the brother of one of them. Great performances, brilliantly shot to show the horrors of war, and riveting from start to finish, this is a movie you definately should see.
Around year ago I watched American Beauty for the first time, and I liked it..just liked it!
Two days later I realized I'm thinking constantly about the film, more days later I have nothing in my mind except American Beauty, every single thing happened/happening to me in my life resonates with what I felt in American Beauty and eventually I ranked it as the second greatest film I've ever saw after Amadeus.
Now, I went to see 1917 knowing who is the director/composer/cinematographer, the three roles that can make any film beautiful.
I NEVER EXPECTED THIS MIRACULOUS PIECE OF CINEMATIC EXPERIENCE! a very simple plot about two soldiers going through a maze to deliver a message that would save their army from massacre, yet delivered in a very complicated, cinematic way! Mendes made the right choice instead of complicating everything he'd give you a very simple story and present it in a more creative way.
Never in my life have I got goosebumps the way it happened at the last 15 minutes of the film.
Never in my life have I seen something as beautiful as the shot of the ruined city with flares and fires all over in IMAX!
The Oscars will probably be yours Mr Mendes and god bless you for what you did.
This is a masterpiece,brilliantly directed,well acted,an amazing story,sometimes funny,emotional and at the end brought tears in my eyes.
Generally the majority of the reviews of 1917 have been positive. But one of the chief arguments against the film among the negative reviews is that somehow director Sam Mendes has sanitized the war-it's described as an "empty spectacle" or designed in effect as "eye candy" for "thrill seekers."
I can only push back against these views as Mendes's "spectacle" is meant primarily to be entertaining. How can any film truly depict the horrors of war? By the very nature of cinematic art, there is going to be some distancing and in the case of a film about World War I, what better way to convey (in some measure) the utter pointlessness of that particular conflict then by creating an exciting story of two "everyman" soldiers, racing against time to prevent catastrophe?
This whole idea that many of the soldiers' recollections (including Mendes's own grandfather, on whom the film is loosely based) cannot be viewed simply in the context of their sense of adventure, is just plain wrong. As depicted in the film, a certain amount of suppression of feelings had to take place, just so the soldiers could carry on. Hence, 1917 is both a tale of adventure and cautionary tale about war.
1917 also has been edited to suggest one continuous take, as though everything is happening in real time. Whether this is merely a gimmick, or adds to the overall verisimilitude, remains open to debate.
The inciting incident occurs when a General orders Blake to hand deliver a message to Blake's brother's battalion (miles away), to call off a planned attack on the Germans, who have actually reinforced their position, thus setting a trap for them. Before he finds out the nature of the mission, Blake selects the more cynical Schofield who ends up accompanying him into no-man's land. All we know mainly about Schofield is that he traded a good bottle of wine for a medal he previously received-much to the chagrin of the more straight-laced Blake.
So yes, Blake and Schofield aren't very developed characters but they really don't need to be. Mendes introduces their "ordinary world" as the trenches, where they exist most of the time, until being called to attack German positions. The two intrepid soldiers leave the ordinary world when they climb out of the trenches and make their way into no man's land.
There's enough here at least to suggest some of the horrors of World War I including all the dead horses strewn about the bombed out landscape along with masses of rats and dead bodies-their faces eaten away by maggots. You can say that our protagonists are initially tested in the first half of the second act "call to adventure," when they enter abandoned German trenches, which they must navigate through, in order to push forward toward their destination.
Blake's competence as a soldier is highlighted when he saves Schofield after a mouse hits a trip wire causing a tremendous explosion in the trenches which reach underground. It's something unexpected and keeps us glued to the screen.
The midpoint of the film comes early, in another extremely suspenseful scene-a German airplane is shot down and crashes a few feet from Blake and Schofield who have been making their way through an abandoned farmhouse.
Schofield reaches the "point of no return" when the German pilot stabs Blake to death after they pull him out of a burning plane. It's another shocking reversal and the mark of good creative screenwriting.
The second half leading to the second act crisis is not as well thought out. Mendes has Schofield picked up by a passing British platoon and illustrates the difficulties of transportation during World War I (a truck gets stuck in the mud and must be extricated) along with an illustration on how soldiers must suppress their feelings in order to function (as the soldiers tell bawdy stories inside the truck, the camera focuses close-up on Schofield, who obviously is trying to contain his emotions, after experiencing the death of Blake, his friend and fellow soldier).
Schofield's dark moment, his second act crisis, involves direct combat with the Germans-first he must pick off a sniper and later, inside a bombed out French town, strangle a German soldier and escape another one, who fires at him incessantly with a rifle.
In between, Schofield provides provisions to a French woman who is caring for an infant-it's a scene designed to show Schofield's humanity and make him more sympathetic. But what about all those shots fired at Schofield during this sequence?-yes he's initially injured by a ricocheting bullet but later all the bullets fired at him, miss their mark!
The improbable escape (which still features a neat, eerily lit town from flares and unattended fires), leads to another improbable (third act) escape, as Schofield must survive a wild trip down the cascading rapids of a river (this scene also proves to be not particularly original).
1917 ends with an exciting climax as Schofield reaches the beleaguered battalion right before they advance on German positions. The way in which he must deliver the general's orders to the company commander, Mackenzie, is riveting and equally poignant when he ends up informing Blake's brother of the sad news of Blake's death.
Not everything in 1917 proves to be completely believable but this is a very solid film which manages to both entertain and (in small measure) convey the horrors of "the war to end all wars."
This movie had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish. It's an astonishing piece of filmmaking
I have literally just set this account up because of this film.It deserves every Oscar, even the ones that it isn't nominated for!!!Sam Mendes has outdone himself. The cinematography is out of this world with the non stop filming. It is so immersive and impressive to watch. The acting is top class, and the story telling/script again deserves all the accolades.I don't think I blinked throughout the entire film, my partner had constant tears, and the film just sucks you in.We watched it in 2D IMAX and I certainly recommend it. I'm sure it will still be good on TV, but I would suggest this is one you should make the effort to watch in a cinema for the full effect.
I enjoyed this film. At times I found it very frustrating, without spoiling it by that at times I mean that, you want the main characters to take a certain action and when they fail to do so or do something else you think just do this or that. The film is beautifully filmed and the war and battle scenes very realistic. The horror of the trenches is recreated but I'm sure in reality it was much much worse. Well worth seeing and worthy of the plaudits that have been bestowed upon it.
STAR RATING: ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday MorningApril, 1917. World War One is drawing to a close, but the odds are no less tense. In the trenches, on the Western Front, Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) are stationed, serving in their unit. Blake finds himself summoned to General Erinmore (Colin Firth) who asks him to choose someone to accompany him on a mission to stop another unit, which includes his brother, from launching an attack, which will benefit the Germans. Selecting Schofield for a seemingly easy mission, the pair find themselves thrust into a terrifying battle for survival.Here, as we are, in the early part of the twenty first century, living in turbulent and unpredictable times, where no one can be certain what will happen or what's around the corner, many of us will carry on our lives, sparing nowhere near as much thought as we should for the terrible sacrifices and hardships that were suffered for us to have the life we have today. And so, renowned director Sam Mendes transports us back over a century, when these events were in full swing, and sweeps us up right in the heart of the horrors of the battlefield, with a unique and trailblazing style that absorbs you in ways you can't imagine.So, yes, more on that ground breaking style. Mendes shoots his feature in one long, continuous take for the duration of the feature, keeping us in the heart of the travails of our lead protagonists, and their inner conflicts, struggles and demons as they embark on their dangerous and uncertain mission. They amble on, stomaching the horrors of the battlefield with as much humour and resilience as they can, their relative calm punctuated by the sudden, cruel loud blast of a mortar shell or elaborately hidden enemy device. Newcomers (or, at least, relative newcomers) Chapman and MacKay in the leads deliver their roles with conviction and power, with solid support from established older co stars such as Firth and Daniel Mays.An accomplished, seasoned (and still fairly young) director applies his talent and professionalism and has delivered one of the most surprising, absorbing and breath taking films of modern times, as well as a brilliant testament to the horrors suffered to give us our freedom. With any justice, it'll sweep the Oscars. *****
Nicely ( not extraordinary in my view) shot , interesting tale but mainly a modern day Saving Private Ryan ( nowhere near as good ) ,unfortunately not over enthusiastic over the acting too, fairly wooden in my opinion.The score is not memorable either , plus with spoilers in my mind , some quite ridiculous scenes.As you can see it's just another war film for me ,of which I've seen many ,no different and a pointless remake . Tbf the one shot technique is lost on me so much for that.
Wouldn't recommend anyone unless they are war film aficionados , if it's raining don't waste your time 7.4 for us .
The cinematography is brilliant , and the story shows the courage and the selflessness of the British soldier which remains to this day 10 /10 from me .
Wonderful film, with great director and cinematography, more than wonderful, I advise everyone to watch it.
Pros: The "one-shot" film concept is incredible and extremely immersive; Captures the constantly dangerous atmosphere, the horror and emotion of war perfectly; Beautiful cinematography and music; Direction, casting and acting are all well done;Cons: None!Verdict:
It's one of the best war films I have seen and it's definitely the best war film of the decade for me.
I can only add what the majority of people have said which is to say awesome breathtaking rollercoaster ride through hell. This is a movie that must be seen and must be seen on the biggest screen. And prepare to be immersed in what has to be said the cinematic experience of the year. This has to seen by the young generation now so they can witness what many of their age sacrificed for freedom and democracy. Their comradeship and the sense of duty. This film had me gripped from beginning to end with some superb performances and worthy of oscars. I would also add as an ex serving soldier that I was impressed with the attention to details although there were some goofs notably pointed out on the site. I would also like to add that this was my feeling and if someone else doesnt feel the film was that good thats there opinion when they then decide to call people names because they dont aspire to their point of view they demean themselves and there review should not be posted - Can IMBD ensure that people posting comments have some decency and respect for people s opinion even if it doesnt reflect theirs and refrain from calling people cretins and brainless
'1917' is a landmark in cinema history. Never before has WW1 been reconstructed and portrayed in such a terrifyingly honest and tender light from such an intimately human perspective. In fact, rarely have any films matched what Sam Mendes has achieved here.Continuous 'one-shot' camera work places the viewer in a striking first-hand point of view. Gritty, bleak, historically accurate sets immerse you in the battlefield. Whether that's in the haunted bones of a crumbling French town, seeing the pockmarking of cavernous craters, brushing shoulders with servicemen in cramped trenches, or pacing through the sheer accompanying volume of corpses, blood, mud, and dust. The imminence of death overshadows constantly.Mendes' focus on character development imprints a deep purpose for the events of the film; saving 1600 men, including the brother of one of the main characters, from a looming German entrapment.
The Germans have made a "strategic withdrawal", suggesting that they are on the run. In fact they're lying in wait, armed and ready to repel the planned British push. It's a race against time to deliver the message on foot to call off the push.
George MacKay and Dean-Charles are perfectly cast as Schofield and Blake. Each character's motivations are clear, at times shared, at times not. Mendes has developed above all believable, complex, and genuine human characters to colour the dark, dreary setting of the production. The outstanding score brings this to even greater heights.
One of the few movies that will make you regret that you stopped doing something one day, but in the same time. However, it will teach you to keep you going forward. I saw this in 2020, and I still think that it is the best movie I've ever seen, the way it is crafted makes feel ambitious about filmmaking in the future, plus the feeling of being a soldier as a viewer is fabulous. Honestly, I don't know what to say more about it, easily Best Picture of 2019, not only for GG, but for everybody who watched it.
I HATE blood, gore, and violence. But this movie didn't overdue it in any of those departments. I was in suspense from the first second of the movie! Amazing actors, amazing filming!Has less action than other war movies. Rather, it focuses on the storyline. BUT again I was in suspense the whole movie.10/10 would recommend!!
1917 is truly on a whole other level from start to finish. Sir Sam Mendes has created something special with this 'one shot' movie, that will have you on the edge of your seats. I found my heart beating out my chest in some scenes and the hairs on the back of my neck stand up in others.Roger Deakins' cinematography is absolutely beautiful, combined with Thomas Newman's score, just adds to the massive scale of this film. The film has everything, action, drama, humour and emotional scenes and truly deserves all the awards it's receiving.
Nineteen seventeen. Sam Mendes. Just superb.This movie is downright amazing. Definitely one of the best movies of 2019 and one of the best war films I've seen. It's thrilling, exciting, scary, shocking and heartfelt, all jam-packed into one beautiful film.The biggest topic of this film is probably how it looked as if it was shot in one single, continuous take. And there's good reason for it. The one-take format just elevated this whole movie with so much more tension and immersiveness. It's very well done from Sam Mendes. There are some scenes where it's easy to spot when they decided to stop the shot and transition into another, but over time it just became seamless.The cinematography by Roger Deakins is also very on-point (as usual). As well as Thomas Newman's score. That was 1917's secret weapon. The score brings the movie from 100 to 1000. Everything is just elevated the moment Newman's score hits and it is beautiful.Performance wise, the entire cast is superb. Especially George MacKay. His performance was just fantastic. I did appreciate that the film didn't focus on the characters with the big stars (Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch, Richard Madden) playing them.1917 is an epic, visceral, stunning depiction of WWI. Buckle up cause once it starts, it doesn't stop.
The best war related movie i have seen, ever. This movie is a masterpiece for the big screen!
Director/Writer Sam Mendes and Cinematographer Roger Deakins produce the best war film of the 2010s. Truly stunning visually, the story of two soldiers' race to the front lines of WWI under direct orders to deliver the message to stop 1,600 British soldiers from entering a trap set-up by German forces to massacre them, keeps the audience on the edge of their seats, and inside the soldiers' boots, through amazing Mendes/Deakins directing/cinematography techniques. This is film art in its highest form, and is at once incredibly beautiful and horrific. A runaway certain Oscar winner for Cinematography (Deakins), and nominations (at a minimum) for Best Film, Director, Visual Effects, Screenplay (Mendes), Film Editing (Lee Smith), and Actor (George MacKay).
This was a good movie, but incredibly long and slow. Not enough to make you want to keep watching. The filming was amazing but it didn't do the slow moving movie enough justice.
This movie could have been 100 times better. Definitely a disappointment.
If you want to use relative unknowns in your film, do not then litter some Hollywood heavy-hitters in bit parts through out the film. Be brave and go with a complete cast of "unknowns". Don't just throw in Benedict, Mark Storm and others as it serves no purpose other than to pull the audience from the film. Not that it's a problem here because, the film isn't exactly brilliant anyway... Stilted dialogue, some shoddy performances, lacklustre music and what we have here is nothing more than a technical masterpiece because, credit where it is due, it IS that.The film looks as though it is shot in one take, which is great. It pulls you along with the soldiers charged with a mission and you see what they go through and the horrors that surround them but - after 20 minutes, we get it. We've seen it. The film is nothing more than a one trick pony. A disappointing one trick pony baiting the award season (fair enough I understand "Best Director" but "Best Picture"???) This film is NOT the Best Picture by a long shot. To call it that is an insult to the other films which have better messages, better stories and have already broken records with monies taken.The biggest problem with this film is, you just do not care about anyone. Literally anyone. The two leads have little character about them and nothing to really endear you to them (hardly surprising given where they find themselves) so when they're in danger - who cares? The people they're going to try and deliver a message to? Again, we don't care. No one really shows compassion (again,, hardly surprising given the circumstances); everyone is aggressive, grumpy, miserable and so - why should we care about them?!I regret this film.
Just came back from the cinema and I must admit this is not what I've experienced.
I found it boring as the story line was just...flat...
So much war, millions dead, reduced to products like this to exploit it all. Cinema is dead. The NWO never stops.
Hitler was right.
1917. Masterpiece? Ridiculous war film in the trend of feelgood brexit movies like Dunkerque was one. With of course the brave Tommie and the eternally bath Krauts. Much better: paths of glory, Johnny got his gun.
This movie is beautifully done. But after about 20 minutes of being impressive with the single shot I was over it. The story is very one note. It's just them getting from point A to point B. The whole film is to showcase the one shot while getting from point A to point B. There were emotional scenes but I didn't feel any emotions. Not sure it it just felt contrived or acting didn't sell it. This does not deserve best picture. Best cinematography sure.
Imagine the movie without the single-shot technique, it would be a very very weak movie. The plot is weak, the characters are weak.Is it trying to say schofield was more strategic and experienced and calm? He also had a family but he is very focused and tough? Blake was inexperienced and naive? Both had very kind hearts that's why they were stabbed and stuff? What characteristics do they have?What about the cow, the milk, and the baby? The cherry blossoms too and the petals in the river - was that all necessary? It's a bit too much and commercial i.e. lame.The single-take shooting technique overwhelmed the plot and the characters - I was more interested in knowing how he did it instead of engaged in the story.I still cannot figure out how it gets such a high rating.
I don't care if the story is good. If a bomb blasts right beside you and you don't even shake/move, you do not deserve a decent rating or an Oscar nom.Besides, this seems sorta like a remake of Idi, Smotri.
I got into about an hour and half of this kid following him to deliver a letter. He defies every obstacle thrown at him and can outrun bullets. Miraculously finds milk to help out a baby, then jumps into a river and a waterfall where the letter in his jacket doesn't get ruined also can swim with boots on, does anyone realize that when you go in water with boots you sink, really Best Picture, far from it!, Judy and Midway were much better movies and Joker just blows this away. Best Director, umm no, many parts unrealistic...very disappointed. The battle scenes, wait there wasn't any and you really never got a perspective of the opposition. So the trench scenes were basically the more interesting scenes. I've seen plenty of war type movies and this wouldn't even make my Top 5.
I have soo many thoughts on 1917 but I'll keep this short.
1917 is by far one of the greatest films I've had the pleasure in viewing and experiencing. The most immersive film I've experienced in my life. Not only was this a great war film but just a great film in general. Right up there with other great war films like Saving Private Ryan, We Were Soldiers, and Hacksaw Ridge. A beautiful artistic, character driven film, a journey I won't soon be forgetting. A must see in any premium format you can manage to view it in.
10/10
I finally found a war film that I absolutely love. 1917 is the latest effort from a very quality filmmaker in Sam Mendes. Sam Mendes has never made a film that I didn't like and so seeing a new war film from him was something I was going to welcome with open arms. This film from opening frame is an absolute technical and emotional journey. Its worth a watch in the cinemas while you can and something I am looking to go see again when I can.
The film is about the journey of two British soldiers who are tasked with delivering an important message about an impending German ambush on British forces during Operation Alberich. The soldiers go on a long and dangerous journey in order to stop this massive planned attack. The film stars George McKay, Dean Charles Chapman, Mark Strong, Colin Firth, and Benedict Cumberbatch. It is Sam Mendes' first non Bond film since 2009.
The obvious must be stated first. I am a huge fan of long takes. Loved Alfred Hitchcock's Rope which was a pioneer in that technique. Then we had memorable long takes through the years including one of my favorites for Gravity. This entire film is presented as one long take; a riveting continuous shot. It is absolutely incredible and completely contributes to the claustrophobic, frantic, and ever present war setting. Roger Deakins is a legend and needs another Academy Award for his work here. Simply incredible. Everything about the set was realistic. The bodies, dirt, and filth looked so authentic. For two hours you feel like you are in the trenches and in the war field, hearing every shot fired and every roaring plane overhead.
Technically the film is a brilliant achievement. It also composes of an excellent score, one that complements each changing scene in the film. So much went into how the film looks and I love that critics have been appreciating it. I had no problems with the fleeting characters and think the two initial leads and their bond is captured well enough. We are here for the journey which is ever changing and sporadic. Overall, this was an extremely pleasant way to end the year for me. One of the years very best.8.5/10
The whole military basis of this story is FALSE.
If a general had needed to get an important message to a regiment facing a massacre he would have had a plane fly over the regiment and drop a message attached to a streamer so it could be picked up. Relying on 2 corporals to walk many miles through known enemy territory has a zero percent chance of success, as everyone would have known.
Front-line trenches of the 'Devons' were constructed by machinery for the movie as these broad trenches could never have been dug by a small group (1600).
No attempt made to explain why so many men were insane enough to put themselves in these crazy, high-death situations. God, king & Country only go so far - perhaps, they were infected with Male-Madness: aka Testosterone?
I'm so conflicted after having just seen this movie. There were lots of parts I liked but also lots that left me frustrated and bemused.If you've ever played the 'Call of duty' video franchise then you'll be familiar with lots of the scenes where there'll be items available for pick up or little safe havens.It is visually fantastic but I really left the theatre wondering whether I liked it or not.
I haven't seen Parasite yet, all I can say is that it must be fantastic, to have beaten this to The Oscar for best movie. The story is incredible, intense, moving, and of course a piece of reality. The raw human emotions is perfectly captured, the Cinema watched in silence, you could tell the audience were captivated.A cinematic Masterpiece, it looks incredible, a lavish, visual treat, the production values are outstanding, it looks and sounds terrific.. There are many moments from this movie that will live with me for a long time. The performances are outstanding, I wouldn't pick out a singular one, they are all terrific.War films are becoming a favourite genre of mine, Dunkirk from a few years ago, and now 1917.If you see one film this year, watch this, it is phenomenal. 10/10
It didn't touch me. Not a good war film, I think.
CGI is too polished as if it is a video game.
Several details in a story line are too unreal as if they were put there just for an additional effect.
Yes, one shot is amazing ( actually more than one ) , but the plotting is too simple, what a big fuss to deliver such a minor assignment!I like the lighting art at the night time chasing scene , other than that, really boring !
There was no need to show this movie in one shot. Could have been good if it was shot traditionally. Unrealistic in SO many places- random geographical features, things and people turns up incoherently and without any reason as if they want to carry this "one shot" movie forward to the next scene. Background score is terrible and sounds like a wannabe. Might appeal to audience from WW-I allied countries, just a flawed movie attempt for others.
1917 is ultimately a frustrating experience, more than anything, given the expectations and hype around the film, and talk of Oscars. Hype in which the film does not live up to. 1917, is a film that is, in my opinion, perfect for those who are easily impressed, allow me to explain.I will start with the positives, 1917 is a beautifully and audaciously shot film. It is split into two long, unbroken shots, a commendable feat. This is to give the audience a perspective of the horrors and chaos that comes with war and to give the audience a sense of exhaustion throughout the film, the latter, I believe is achieved. The former? I'll get to that.The cinematography is at times stunning. It has one of my favourite shots of any movie around the midway mark of the film and an action sequence in the finale that will win many viewers over. The soundtrack is also a positive and helps to build tension, as well as it possibly can.The problem with all of this is, while the movie looks beautiful, it has very little substance to back it all up. Yes, the film is shot in two parts and that is meant to portray what war is really like, but that all counts for nothing when the movie is in essence, a poor portrayal of war. This is, by all accounts, a sterilised, Hollywood version of war, where the only emotion that truly shines through is courage.The acting, while solid, does nothing to help. Neither Dean-Charles Chapman nor George MacKay deserve awards for their respective performances because neither delivered on what they set out to achieve in their portrayal of the main characters. MacKay was the stand out of the two but fell short in many of his pay off moments. Whether the blame rests solely with them or is shared with the director is a discussion that could be had.The most troubling aspect of this film is, without a doubt, it's attempt to explore it's themes. As already discussed, the attempt to portray the horrors of war, missed its mark, but many other themes, such as the futility of bravery, hopelessness and what comes after war, were fumbled through almost comically and the opportunity to give any message as a takeaway, was missed each and every time.For these reason I say that 1917 is a film perfect For those easily impressed, It looks stunning and has all the bells and whistles, but lacks any substance. I likened the experience to a roller coaster, lots of fun and definitely fast paced but ultimately there is nothing to take from it because if you've been on one roller coaster, you've been on them all. 68/100
Immersively done, the movie sucks you into the horror of World War One. The camera tracks these 2 soldiers all the way through their mission with a smooth one shot for the entire length of the movie. According to the director Sam Mendes, it allows you to live with them and breathe every breath. And that feeling of never seeing further than the characters, always being trapped within their immediate environment, was an important reason why they decided to shoot this way. From the acting, to the cinematography, editing, score and overall direction Sam Mendes creates one of the best pieces of film ever to grace the silver screen. Congratulations in advance to 14 times Academy Awards nominee Roger Deakins for all the visual and technical brilliance - guaranteed Oscar for Best Cinematography. And for the critics who complain that there is no character building moment in the movie, it's because the motivation here is to save lives and not focus on characters. #1917 leaves you breathless, with an uplifting feeling (and some tears) when the journey comes to an end.
Only to be seen on the big screen, preferably IMAX 2D.
Enough has been said about the apparently single shot in the movie. But the film is more than that. It is raw and explicit when it comes to showing the hopelessness people experienced during wars. Some scenes are really eerie while some scenes evoke dread. Over all, this movie is a masterpiece and should not be missed in theatres. If you have an IMAX screen nearby, do watch in that.
This film is so amazing in all aspects.
First of all George MacKay is outstanding in this movie. I don't know why didn't he get at least a nomination. Production design is great. The way Sam Mendes managed to create the atmosphere of the Great War is truly Oscar winning. Directing is also marvellous. While I was watching the movie, i was saying to myself: "wow this guy just earned an Oscar". It's amazing how they made the movie look like it's a one shot take. This portrays the duty of soldiers in this cases, meaning that they can't lose a second or their purpose will be affected. As the movie slogan states: "Time is the enemy".
For this I outline the amazing director's work and Oscar winning cinematographer Roger Deakins. The script is very good, solid and entertaining. You really get to connect with the characters and fell their emotions, starting from the nap at the beginning to the resting in the tree at the end. It's also emotionally strong since the script takes the WWI atmosphere very crudely showing the horrors of war.
Finally sound. Wow. I jumped scared in one of the scenes because of the sound of an explosion I think this is one of the strong points that this movie has. It really immerses you in the environment. When planes pass by the sound of the engine leaves you deaf (not really but).
So, if you have the time and money to waste in this movie just do it, you will have a good time and I hope this wins Best Picture at the Oscars.
Interesting concept of shooting in as few takes as possible, and definitely a technological feat, that works pretty well and contributes to the immersion. That being said, there were certain points where I feel the film could've used some cuts (those sharp turns in the trenches were fuggen' rough, bro.)I'm thoroughly impressed at the insane scale of the set they built, and therefore the fact that we never see a location twice.The character pulls some real BS "i'm the protagonist, so I live", which irked me a little bit. But alas, twas still solid!the acting was excellent, definitely helped move me while watching it.Music was somewhat overbearing at times, but otherwise did the job.Spicy film. Worth watching.
I find 1917 the best WW1 movie ever made. because there is only one shot you really get engrossed in the film and and ever more if you have seen him on the silver screen. The rats are really iconic from WW1 so its nice to see that and ofcourse all the trenches are really impressive. The film is really exciting and unique. WW1 was ofcourse a terrible war and you can see that in this film and that made it very realistic.Great Movie
Title says it all.
There's not many films where you can go to the cinema and be glued to the screen from start to finish, but this definitely does that.
From the moment I sat down to the moment the credits rolled up I was in suspense. The way this was filmed was on another level, which grips all the audience.
I have recommended to everyone who has asked about it and even to those who have not.
I watched it in a Superscreen which added to the cinematic experience.
A must see.
Best movie of 2019 hands down and one of the greatest movies of war ever!
In fact, it's one of a kind movie experience of war.The way Mendes conducts the movie make you feel lonely when the caracter is lonely, in danger when the caracter is in danger, sad when he is sad, and so on.
Nowadays, when directors and producers confuse a great movie experience with 3D and tons of CGI, Mendes shows all of us that there is nothing more imersive than a good and thoughtful storytelling.
This is such a brilliant piece of army movies
.There are so many thrilled scenes in this movie and i will recommend this movie.Atleast watch this movie in your life after watching 'The Shawshank Redemption'.
I haven't ever written a review on here before, although I always read them, but am moved to do so after watching 1917 last night. Quite simply a masterpiece from start to finish. Two hours of gripping, expertly filmed story-telling. Much has been said of the "one shot" effect, but it really does build tension and immerse you in the story like no film, for me, has ever done before. The unknown lead actors and the well-known actors in supporting roles gel together brilliantly, and I for one was transported through time and space and when the credits rolled I was left stunned, blinking, wondering what had just happened and how on earth Sam Mendez had managed it. Quite simply spectacular.
1917 is a beautifully made film from start to finish. It never waivers in its momentum. The filming techniques are great and capture the mood well. The Direction is great, it scores well in realism. There are no over the top moments and it builds up well. So when we have some pivotal events Mendes shows and allows us to experience moments. There is also an emotional payoff in the end. The acting is top notch and brought home well by a good cast. A truly great film that doesn't try too hard but simply delivers. 8/10
Everything is just great. This movie captures our emotions by sticking us to the main characters. The cinemetography is soo good, it tell stories without words.
There is not many movies out there that does the unique and hard way to make a film in one continuous shot and Sam Mendes did it here with one if not the best movie of 2019. It's a war movie but far from something that we are used to watch, what we did get was a very real portrayal of The Great War and everything horrible about it.
Right from the start we get introduced to the two characters and they then start their adventure, it does not take a long while to the true horrors of WW1 to be shown to us and its what the actors, script and direction succeeded in doing, creating an incredible experience.The production design is just extraordinary, sets most of all. To think of all the trenches they dug and everything else, it's amazing how hard all the crew worked to create this masterpiece. Cinematography was simply superb, giving us shots that makes us immersed, focusing on the environment and everything on the screen when the actors aren't in the focus made us feel the shocking sights the soldiers had to see everyday. Musical score was one other highlight, keeping us suspense with music fitting a war movie. Why should you watch this movie, a war movie that earned 10 nominations in the Oscar's. You'll experience something totally unique, visually stunning that makes your eyes stick to the screen and witnessing acting that portrays realistic soldiers. It's a masterpiece in its genre and in film!
Personally I don't see 1917 without it's one shot take. Sam Mendes mad a huge risk to do that and it really pulled off. The movie has a series of mixed emotions, for example when Schofield stops to hold the baby and the next thing he does is chokes a german soldier. Cinematography is a 10/10 the position of the camera in every scene is on point the timing of the movement of the camera and the scene is marvelous. The movie is a 10/10 for me.
This is my first review ever. I had to write it because I am fascinated from what I've seen right now. With all respect, Citiyane Kane, 2001: A space odyssey and 1917 are the most revolutional direction of all time. Master peace of world cinema, so glad that someone made something like this in TV era.
It has been a really long time since I have seen a truly exceptional film...so long that I cannot actually remember when that was...probably when I first saw "The Pianist". This one has the same merits as the aforementioned, it absorbs you completely in and makes you feel as if you are a part of the events it depicts. But overall I find an even better film because the sets, the special effects and the filming techniques are of the highest level of artistry. Definitely worthy of the Best Motion Picture this year.
The only reason I didn't give 1917 a 10 is because the lead actor had the personality of a piece of chalk. He looked almost as dead as the bodies that were strew around him. Or maybe that was the point and I'm missing it. In any case, the cinematography was worth the price of admission alone. Compared to the other films up for Oscars, 1917 should be an easy win. It was full of drama and action, and paced in a strong way that The Academy likes. I wish it luck.
When something grips you from beginning to end and you feel not the time passing, like you are in a sort of time warp, that is when you know you are witnessing a masterpiece. Blown away.
Everything this top notch...literally everything!
It reminds me of Saving Pvt Ryan. The production design can't be any better. The background score, the cinematography is one of the best I have seen. Not to forget the hard work put up by Cast and the crew!
Never seen a such a epic war movie,which capture u to it roots till end...the storryline and emotions are far beyond the masterpiece...it's amazing direction and acting makes its a much deserved roll for a Oscars.
Salute to the bravehearts...
This is a beautifully shot movie. So much so that if everything else about the movie was a little mediocre, it wouldnt actually matter very much.This of course is not the case though. 1917 delivers on every level and is a wonderful piece of film making. If you don't know the detail about how it was made, look it up, it is massively impressive.Technical stuff aside though, in a time where we are saturated with remakes, sequeals and spin offs, it's refreshing to see a good original story and get taken on a real journey by a great movie again.Do yourself a favour and watch it at the flicks, you will not regret it :)
When I write this review, this movie had already 1.323 reviews, wow this is amazing response! But I hope my review is still useful for Sam Mendes loyal watchers. This movie had one long shot with one story only, but this is masterpiece. I would like directly say that Sam Mendes created story of a short journey of a English soldier, who represents the history of WW I itself. On the movie, you can see the trenches during World War I, the problem of being soldier, the ambiance of war, and the most important thing is that how from the beginning of the scene, the audiences can follow the journey of a soldier like they experience it by themselves. That soldier was supposed to give important message to other regiment, but on the journey there are many circumstances and events that he cannot deny. As an audience, I still remember all the scenes in one united story, and this is Sam Mendes expertise to make all scenes united in one single shot camera. Thank you also for camera crews that make this idea happen and perhaps become trend of scene language in the next 10 years in movie industry, especially war movies. This movie had lightened my day and although it receives some negative critics, I just do care about what is improvement for war movies. Sam Mendes had casting several figures that all have experiences in war movies and I think this wipes all the doubters. I mean, there are Benedict Cumberbatch, Mark Strong, and Ralph Fiennes. Thank you for this movie, Sam Mendes!
I think the best way to describe this movie is to say that it feels like an incredible journey.The plot is absolutely one that warrants the decision to film it as if it was one shot. I know it wasn't the first film to do this, but I feel it had a more profound effect on the overall feel of this movie than this style did for others like it. It forces you to feel the weight of each passing minute, and evokes a sense of urgency like I've never experienced before.I highly recommend doing some research after watching the movie about how they designed the sets. The choice to film the movie as one shot meant they had to be extremely precise with the speed and distance the actors needed to travel during each scene to make sure the pacing of the movie made sense.I think it's fascinating how factors such as weather, lighting, and set design needed to be just right to achieve the final look they wanted. I appreciate the consideration of these minute details, as I can tell how crucial each element was in tying everything together into the masterpiece that it is. It's hard to think of a reason anyone could dislike this film - it's truly an incredible watch!
I must admit, I was a bit skeptical about the way the movie was filmed. I thought it may make me feel as if I am playing a game, just with no control. However this cinematic masterpiece surprised me greatly, with its immersive way of taking the audience on this journey. I am not easily thrilled, yet i caught myself, grasping on the arm rests multiple times. You will feel wide range of emotions and care deeply for the story, so simply, effortlessly and beautifully told. The story that makes war experience so personal and real, even if you've (hopefully) never experienced war yourself. I am a big fan of war movies, but i am sure, that even if such theme isn't your preference - you will like this one and it won't leave you indifferent.
A fantastic, emotional and adrenaline inducing movie, of two men attempting to deliver a message when all odds are against them, in the largest war in their history.
Full of nail biting scenes, emotional interactions and stunning scenery, all being filmed in long, unbroken shots.
Both the main actors knocked it out of the park, delivering incredible performances.
One scene in particular caused me to genuinely sweat with anxiety.
A film that must be seen.
Just amazing. The screenplay, cinematigraphy and acting are absolutely top notch.
Go see this movie on the big screen. It's amazing. Absolutely breathtaking piece of art. I was holding my breath for two hours. Such great filmmaking.
Beautiful cinematography, emotional score & George MacKay was exquisite! Why he isn't nominated for any awards is beyond me!
The most emotional and heartfelt film I have seen for years. Don't hesitate just watch it. Awesome, I wanted to immediately see it again.
I have been reading reviews for years but never wrote one. This movie was so special that I had to do it. From start to finish it is one hell of a joyride owing to its 1 shot. The cinematography is beautiful, the emotions are high, the war is intense and the story is real.
Do yourself a favour and find the biggest group you can find to watch this movie with.
War movies are the go to section for best picture at the Oscars but here me out this is no typical war film it is a visecral tension filled emotionally harrowing film where every technical aspects helps the movie to go forward from sound mixing to sound design to ost everything is in sync with the movie so that a audience can get a satisfying experience. Sam mender is back from his earlier lacklustre film with a bang this is his most personal film because the story is about his grandfather who served world war 1 and it talks about the sheer humanity and going forward to finish what is started the fantastic capability of a person's state of mind the humongaus will power to complete the mission in order to save one's brothers in arms is goosebump enducing and tear jerking and coming to another master who is sir Roger deakins who masterfully shot the film which is one take my God how he and editor and Sam Mendes filmed those impossible scenes that is just crazy to just think only. It is not a gimmick it just immerse you with the characters depicted in the screen bravo!. And the actors delivered some of there career best work. Saving Private Ryan got a worthy competitor in the 21st century and frankly this is the best action film of the decade ever. Oscars are tough thistime.
This movie is amazing. The way it was filmed as one shot gives a unique feeling, it had me more captivated and to be honest since I was watching it several times I taught that I need to see the way it was filmed & behind the scenes shots.Since the beginning of the movie you can realise that they put a lot of work in making it. All the trenches that where made, according to the director more then a mile of trenches in total. Just amazing work and money well spent.The actors where great, especially for two young actors. They obviously had to learn a lots of lines as the shots where so large.In the end, a great movie, great actors, the way it was filmed was amazing, definitely a must see !
What a truly remarkable movie, so much more than just technically perfect.
Sam Mendes created a masterpiece, here he is a the top of his craft.
The competition is strong but I believe this is the best movie of the year and one of the best of the decade.
This movie was so beautifully shot and directed. One of the cinematic experiences of a lifetime and full of mesmerizing beauty. Roger Deakins has once again cemented himself as one of the greatest cinematographers of all time. Thomas Newman's profound score elevates every situation into a frenzy of abominable melancholy. Every moment of this film was intense and nail biting, the world building details were insane and they made the setting feel all the more realistic.
A must see in the theaters.
Best movie watched in a recent time, i become fan of cinematography.Still I'm getting goosebumps how they manage to a huge lengthy shots? Really appreciate your work.
Amazing cinematography and story telling! A gripping thriller as two ment start out on an improbable mission. I can't believe its one short movie, but the after watching it i felt like i live it so must be true.
A strong contender for Oscars. This is a story of great courage and sacrifice that soldiers make.The movie will keep you engaged and at the edge of your seat throughout the duration.
Strong story, wonderful cinematic experience where it is one continuous shot, great dialogue (which is kept to a minimum), brilliant music. Loved it!
It's movies like this that make me appreciate the creative minds in cinema!On a saturated topic, Sam Mendes creates an experience, that for two hours takes to an immersive "single shot" adrenaline pumped journey of two soldiers during one of the harshest periods of modern historyInspired by the stories told by his grandfather, Mendes proves that great movies transcend genres and topics.Deserving of all the award buzz, no doubt!!
It sometimes happens that you embark on somebody else's journey. This is exactly the way this wonderful film starts. But then, something else happens and it becomes your very own one. Since then there's no room for hesitation. It's only yours and nobody else's. Magical is the moment when we understand this.
One of the frontrunners for this year's Oscar for Best Picture is Sam Mendes' epic World War I film, 1917, starring Dean-Charles Chapman, George MacKay, Daniel Mays, Colin Firth and Benedict Cumberbatch among others.Mendes (Director of Skyfall, Road to Perdition and American Beauty) helms this film, which has been nominated for ten Oscars including: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Makeup/Hairstyling, Best Production Design, Best Original Score, Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Mixing and Best Sound Editing. The film already took home wins at the Golden Globes in Best Picture-Drama, and Best Director.The film is a taut thriller filled with non-stop tense moments as Lance Corporal Blake and Lance Corporal Schofield, officers in the British army are tasked with going through no man's land, behind enemy lines, through a web of peril to deliver a message to their fellow soldiers to call off an offensive as where they plan to attack is a trap. The attack is planned for the following morning at dawn and time is short.One of the most unique parts of the film is how it is shot as a "single shot." Meaning the entire film is one continuous scene. It shows the soldiers on the run through the multitude of dangers without stopping. There are a few places where the scenes were "cut" when it transitions from outside to underground in the trench, but the feel of the movie is a non-stop, pulse-pounding, action-packed stream that never lets up.Mendes, who also had a hand in the screenplay, co-written with Krysty Wilson-Cairns, is based on stories of the Great War from his own grandfather, Lance Corporal Alfred Hubert Mendes.Mendes commented on his inspiration for the film:
"Our film is fiction, but certain scenes and aspects of it are drawn from stories he told me, and ones told him by his fellow soldiers. This simple kernel of an idea-of a single man carrying a message from one place to another-stayed with me and became the starting point for 1917."The film, like many modern war films that precede it, focuses on both the hellish nature of war, especially trench warfare, but also the heroism and willingness of soldiers to sacrifice their own lives for the fellow countrymen and the cause. There are also some similarities to Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan set in the First World War.I really enjoyed the film. I think the cinematography and the single shot approach was unique and impacting. The story was compelling. The acting was superb. There were a lot of things the film did well. The score and sound brought an atmospheric feeling enhancing the drama and tension building on the screen.Definitely recommend this film for anyone who enjoys action, thrillers and war films.
The cinematography of 1917 is, as you may have heard, special to say at least. By creating the effect of a "one shot movie" the audience is experiencing the emotional, epic and brutal trip through war divided France at its best.The music is great and the acting is good. 1917 is everything that you want and expect from a war movie.
This isn't a gimmick. If you get the chance, please watch it in the cinema, it was quite an experience. I went with family members and the journey home was silent, it left the lot of us speechless.
This movie is extremely well crafted. The incredible camera work guides the viewer through the story of the two young soldiers, while the score intensifies the emotions felt during the viewing in an astonishing way.1917 is a great movie with a compelling story, interesting characters, and above all a beautiful way of showing these to the audience. I highly recommend seeing this movie, as it is definitely worthy of Academy Awards such as Best Score, Best Director and even Best Picture.
A beautifully directed movie. Cinematography was unreal. Cast, incredible. Music is hauntingly beautiful. George MacKay should of been nominated! Sam Mendez, you're amazing. Better win best picture.
I read a headline critical of 1917 right before I saw it, that said something along the lines of 'Does 1917 have anything new to say about war?' I couldn't help but think about this throughout my viewing of the film, and realised pretty early on that no, perhaps it doesn't really have anything 'new' to say.But at the same time, what is there to say about war that hasn't already been said? The personal and psychological experience of the solider, following orders and just trying to survive, is a surprisingly universal one, and has been captured extremely well in many of the past few decades' best war films, including Platoon, Come And See, The Deer Hunter, and Full Metal Jacket. The broader issues of war, breaking it down politically and socially, looking at why nations fight and to what extent they are or are not justified in doing so, and the way things so often spiral out of control are all far more complicated topics to tackle, but someone like Ken Burns has more or less made a career out of doing that through his lengthy documentary miniseries.' So even in that department, it's hard to explicitly say something truly new and unique about the topic of war.This is all preamble to say ultimately it didn't matter to me that 1917 did not have a lot to say beyond how terrible war is, how foolish the higher-ups sending young men off to die are, and how brave some of the individual soldiers on the frontline were for surviving and trying to hold onto their humanity in the process. What 1917 does bring to the table is a new way of putting the audience into the war, capturing the tedium, tension, and horror of what our two main characters go through, largely through the immersive use of numerous long takes strung together to give the illusion of one single, continuous shot.It could be something of a gimmick to some, and I was skeptical in the film's first few scenes just how well this approach would work, but early on, when the camera follows our two main characters crossing No Man's Land, forcing us to experience every painful, tension-filled step along with them, no cuts to ease the tension by showing them suddenly safe and on the other side, I was basically hooked.To give away anymore of the set pieces I feel would be criminal. But even with the scenes in which danger isn't 100% present- the 'downtime' if you will- are often just as engaging and interesting, thanks to a powerful score, consistently great visuals, and two strong lead performances (plus a whole host of recognisable actors popping up in cameos, that honestly weren't too distracting).Very occasionally the writing veered close to being cheesy, and there were a couple of shots involving one character jumping that looked out of place- I think he was composited onto a green screen or CGI was used, because a couple of these stunts didn't look seamless. But these are ultimately nitpicks. By and large, this film as a whole works thrillingly and surprisingly well, and is entirely worth seeing on the big screen.There are images and sequences here that will stick with me for a long time to come. It's not quite my absolute personal favourite of 2019, but if it ends up taking home Best Picture, it'll be deserved.
This movie is just amazing it's January and I think this is my film of the year. The cat and crew deserve massive praise for a job really well done
Wow wow wow. What a fantastic film. Not much battle scenes but doesn't need it. The suspense is painfully good. The scenes make you feel like you are there with them and it gives you an idea of how hellish ww1 really was.
One for the cinema!!
You have to see this movie. You feel like you are in the movie.
And them some. Shame that George MacKay didn't get a Best Actor nomination.I was absolutely stunned by the turn of events in the middle of the movie. I just didn't expect what happened after the plane crash.
I recently went to go and see this new film at the cinema and was very pleased with how Sam Mendez made me feel like I was actually present within the story as if I I was there in 1917 living the life of the soldiers. The way he's managed to do the film without any cuts scenes and being a continuous rolling shot of the film made you feel like you were constantly with Lance Corporal Schofield ( George Mackey ) throughout his journey of the story. Right from the beginning of the film your hooked on this emotional rollercoaster of a ride that you go though! Where it had me on the edge of my seat waiting to see what the next move was. Any giving you a look at the emotions that Lance Corporal Schofield was feeling During his journey. There were highs and low laughter and sadness and terrifying situations that you can only imagine what a soldier during that time went through, within even a short period as it is in the story but you can see how difficult and how much the soldiers went through even if it was a short timeline like the film. I was very pleased pleasantly surprised with all the surprise cameos within the film like Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin firth and many more. And that you've got to see not just an inside look of the story of Schofield but the story of everyone else that is involved with his journey. This film is definitely a crowdpleaser and a must see film of 2020 and will definitely most likely be up there in one of the war films to remember along with saving private Ryan, Dunkirk and hacksaw ridge.
Nothing is needed to be said. Just 10/10
The director, the cast and the team made this movie an absolute P H EN O ME N A L
Watch this movie. Every scene was just so visually fantastic.
Saw 1917 & it's the Best Picture of the Year!, Absolutely Phenomenal movie, I've seen all the previous nominated movies and there is none better than 1917, visually stunning in everyway, cinematography excellent perfect Balance of drama & suspense, and the entire movie filmed in one shot wow, I remember seeing a Underrated film on Netflix called The OutLaw King which I liked a lot, in that film the opening scene is shot in one shot and it was the first of it's kind but that's only the opening scene, but whats incredible about 1917 it is filmed entirely in one shot, it is incredible, the best war films when you break it down that I have ever seen from depth of story telling to action has been Saving Private Ryan, Hacksaw Ridge and now 1917,what's crazy is that 1917 doesn't even really have a war battle scene, it's mostly suspense and intense scenes with a couple of shootouts yet it's still one of the greatest Cinematic war films of alltime, it's definitely the Best Picture of The Year or it darn right should be, 4/4Stars, A+, 9/10 for 1917 it Should receive best picture & Director Oscars forsure.
Beautiful film, admirable cast. Most of all, I admired the entrancing cinematography that really pushed the adrenaline further as I kept watching. It gave the film a sense of urgency and the inevitable passing of time and events that can't be controlled or stopped. The accompanying soundtrack delivered very well, but I also found myself loving certain scenes of pure silence where it almost felt safe. This film is one hundred percent worth the watch. 10/10
Brilliant!!! Absolutely brilliant!!!!
Cannot wait to get it on bluray just to see how they did half that stuff!
Such a good movie super tense had me intrigued the whole time . Richard madden almost made me cry . Defiantly a must watch in theaters
The dedication of this movie is shown through the watching experience, it almost amazes me how minimal yet amazing the shots were, simply mind blowing.All accolades this film receives are thoroughly deserved, a masterclass of cinematography, sound editing and directing, no film in my personal opinion compares. The best war movie ever made. All credits go to the actors, the endurance and skill it must have taken to perfect the scenes must have been both physically and emotionally enduring.It takes you on a emotional and adrenaline filled journey, which leaves your heart and stomach in your mouth throughout, it embodies war and anguish creating what can simply be described as a complete cinematic experience, I could not take my eyes off the drama.It's poetic beauty of the fear of the unknown future during war time, the determination of brotherhood and the respect of comrades is shown through the the various scenes taken over a mere 24 hour period, whilst simultaneously making you feel you've known the characters for a lifetime. completely emotionally enticing.The emotional investment this film creates is almost unbelievable in nature, you empathise a lifestyle you could otherwise never imagine, all credits to the director and his team.Do not wait until this film is out on dvd, watch it in the cinema, you will never find a movie you feel more apart of ever in your lifetime. Congratulations to all involved.
Camera work more than exceptional, acting perfect and believable, one of the greatest.
I can say with confidence that this is my favorite war movie and one of my favorite movies overall.I was worried that the way it's shot (to seem like it's all in one shot) would be little more than a gimmick, but it really brings you in to feel like you're there with the characters. You'll find yourself constantly looking past the characters to see if there is some danger that they aren't aware of, and you never get a chance to feel comfortable.With the movie essentially all one shot, I was worried that character development would suffer. I can say that you will become attached to the characters and really care about them. They become your war buddies and you will root for them to succeed.The cinematography left me in awe throughout this movie. There were multiple scenes that really stood out, but there is one where lights are coming randomly from different directions. That scene was so terrifyingly beautiful, which essentially this movie in a nutshell.If you're looking for a war movie with constant action and gun fights then this isn't the movie you're looking for. This will take you for a journey with all its ups and downs.
Unfortunately, I think this film has let itself down to certain audiences by being too realistic. A lot of the reviewers on here seem to envision war as being all "YEE-HAW"'s and explosions, with awesome Kung-fu fights with cool front flips. If that's what you want out of a war time movie, like the critics, do not go and watch 1917.If you do however, want to see a film with a realistic world war 1 setting, containing believable gun fights, gruesome (yet realistic) props, moments with high suspense and great, well thought out dialogue, then you should go and see 1917.A lot of people seem to be comparing this to Saving Private Ryan (which with all due respect a great movie), but it's like comparing Gladiator to Saving Private Ryan. For starters, 1917 and Saving Private Ryan aren't even the same war. WW1 was mainly trenches, suspense and rubbish equipment. A lot of WW1 probably was boring and actionless, sitting around wondering when you'll be sent to your death. It's like comparing Chalk and Cheese. Of course there are similarities (they're both war films being pretty much the only one), but there is so much that is different. 1917 should be seen as a completely different film, not a Saving Private Ryan remake. If that's what you're expecting, you'll be disappointed.The story, I agree, is slightly unbelievable. But when have movie plots ever been 100% realistic? Especially action films. It's a film, not a documentary. Don't get too caught up on whether this scenario would have ever taken place. If you're going to deduct stars from your review because "the scenario isn't believable", I suggest you never step foot in a cinema or watch a film ever again, because there's a lot of films out there that are going to leave you very triggered.
To say this was a huge Surprise would be an Understatement, I had seen 2 or 3 different trailers before seeing it last night, nothing could have prepared me for what I experienced, it's as close to a tense yet incredibly enjoyable 2 hr Roller Coaster ride as you could get, This was the greatest one continuous shot type Film I have ever seen, The Pacing of the Film is like no other I've seen, the amount of onscreen story telling you experience feels way more than just the 2 hrs run time, it's just the perfect economy in motion pacing, a pause for just a minute and off to the next main objective, you'll see what I mean, the pacing is just masterful, the tension building is also phenomenal, Best Film by Far this Year in January of all months, can't imagine any other topping this Masterpiece
Gripping and Intense. The cinematography makes you feel you are actually in there. Amazing backscore and set. Am sure it is going to win best picture fingers crossed.
A masterpiece with simple straight forward writing but an immersive story!
Would've liked to have seen flashbacks before the war other than the trenches! Great message for people striving to give more than taking more!
It was the assassination of the Austrian archduke Franz Ferdinand at the hands of Serbian nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914 that set off World War I. When all was said and done, four years and six and a half months later, on November 11, 1918, as many as fifteen million people, civilians and soldiers alike lay dead on the continent of Europe.It remains one of the most misunderstood conflicts in human history's sadly long (and getting longer by the minute) series of wars. But it's a war that hasn't necessarily gotten as much attention from Hollywood as, say, World War II, Vietnam, or the wars America has fought since September 11, 2001. The best films about what Woodrow Wilson once called "The War To End All Wars" have been Lewis Milestone's 1930 classic ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT, and Stanley Kubrick's 1957 magnum opus PATHS OF GLORY. One can now add director Sam Mendes' "1917" to that rather short list.In this movie, shot in one huge long flowing take lasting 119 minutes or so, young British actors Drew-Charles Chapman and George MacKay portray two British soldiers assigned to what could best be called a suicide mission. They have to deliver a message to a British force deep inside enemy territory to call off an attack against a supposedly retreating German battalion, which their commanders have labeled to be a deadly trap. Indeed, this deadly trap, if the Brits fall into it, will result in the loss of 1600 soldiers, including Chapman's own brother (Richard Madden). And in that time, a bond of brotherhood will develop between these two soldiers as they make their long trek across a wide swath of no-man's land, full of body-filled trenches, tripwires, German snipers, and all other manner of the horrors of war the likes of which humanity had never seen before.Mendes, whose directing credits prior to "1917" included the 1999 Oscar-winning AMERICAN BEAUTY, 2002's ROAD TO PERDITION, and the 2012 James Bond offering SKYFALL, both directed and co-scripted "1917", inspired by the stories his grandfather told him about this brutal part of human history, a war that proved most devastating to Mendes' native England, not only in the numbers of Brits who were killed, but also in the manner in which more than a few of them died; this was the first known instance, and by no means the last, of chemical weapons being used in military conflict. And while Mendes' film does not feature any uses of chemical weaponry like mustard gas in its story, the director nevertheless shows a great deal of the brutality and inhumanity of this war, and how Chapman and MacKay keep their humanity about them in a situation in which bloody death is a constant thing. That he was able to do this in one long single take from start to finish is indeed an incredible achievement; it is a technical marvel. But Chapman's and MacKay's performances as the young soldiers offer up the importance of how innocence is always the first thing that gets destroyed in war, helping make "1917" a masterpiece that goes beyond just the "one-take" technical brilliance.Mendes is particularly good in the opening section of the film, creating the long flowing shots in the trenches, ones that are, whether wittingly or not, a nod to what Kubrick had done with brilliance in PATHS OF GLORY; and the avant-garde score by Thomas Newman (AMERICAN BEAUTY; BRIDGE OF SPIES) captures both the horror and the humanity of the situation at hand. While Colin Firth and Benedict Cumberbatch, both great actors on their own, do have roles in here, the focus remains on Chapman and MacKay throughout, ensuring that "1917" does for World War I what both ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT and PATHS OF GLORY had done before it: find a spark of decency in one of humanity's darkest times.
I really loved this movie. The "single take" appearance adds significantly to the drama, realism, and emotions of the movie. The visuals are outstanding and the two main actors are fabulous. There are several big names that are in the movie with very limited screen time which also adds to the overall impact of the movie. The Wayfaring Stranger song is basically perfect.
Serious gritty and immersive, remind me a bit how Kubrick would do a movie.
One of the best films i have ever seen, just watch it and see for yourself.
With stunning cinematography, a thrilling narrative, and so much more, 1917 more than feels worthy of being one of the best war films ever made. Brilliantly directed by Sam Mendes, the film is everything you would want it to be. At times the pacing may seem to take a dip, but the emotional impact of the characters, is more than enough for you to stick around. The film is also shot beautifully, and makes for by far the most engaging film to grace the screen this year. All actors involved truly give it their all, and all characters seem to truly not only look real but feel real as well. In the end, 1917 is by far a technical achievement, but is also unlike anything we have seenn before in this genre, and is more than able to hold itself to that.
My Rating: 9.75/10
I saw "1917", starring George MacKay-Captain Fantastic, Peter Pan_2003; Dean_Charles Chapman-Blinded By the Light, Game of Thrones_tv; Richard Madden-Rocketman, Game of Thrones_tv and Colin Firth-the Mamma Mia! movies, the Kingsman movies.
This is a WW1 movie that is inspired by the director's grandfather's experiences, 'The Autobiography of Alfred H. Mendes 1879_1991'. Sam Mendes is the director and writer, who also directed Spectre, Skyfall and Road to Perdition. The film is shot and edited to make it look like it is one long shot that takes place in real time. It takes place in April of 1917 and follows two British soldiers, George & Dean, who are given an important mission: Get a message to fellow soldiers behind enemy lines that are about to launch an attack against German soldiers. If they fail to notify their fellow soldiers, the Germans will spring a trap on the Allies and over 1,600 men will be massacred, including Dean's brother, Richard. Colin is the General that gives George and Dean their orders and there are several cameos, including Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch. The action scenes look great and realistic as George and Dean make their way across enemy territory, determined to succeed in their mission. It is a visceral look at war.
It's rated "R" for violence, disturbing images and language and has a running time of 1 hour & 59 minutes.
If you are a war movie fan, you will probably enjoy this one. I did and I would buy it on Blu_Ray.
I found 1917 to be very entertaining and inspiring to be persistence and have faith in your own abilities to get there; to obtain your goal at ALL cost.I throughly enjoyed this War movie and the Music was fantastic!! Yes I paid attention to the Music ;-)
My review of "1917".
There are very few movies which successfully pull off illusion of being shot in one continues take.
Alfred Hitchcock's 'ROPE' (1948) comes to mind, as well as the opening shot of Orson Wellse's 'Touch of Evil' (1958). More recently "Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance)" (2014) directed by Alejandro G. Irritu earned the best Picture and best Director among other categories back in 2015, which shows how much the Academy appreciates this stylistic yet technically difficult choice of story exposition.
By now everyone knows that Sam Mendes's "1917" has yearned the Golden Globe for best film and before seeing it I was bit unsure of this choice leaning towards 'JOKER' as the best movie of the year. Potentially Mende's movie has all the ingredients to be special. First, an acclaimed director in Sam Mendes, second arguably the best director of photography who paints with light in Roger Deakins, the budget of close to 100mil, so what could go wrong? Well perhaps setting a challenge of trying to convey movies full story in real time using what appears to be one continues take.
Magician does not explains how he achieved particular trick same as filmmaker usually doesn't show how he created film sequence. By doing so, he is demystifying the process which should only be known to the initiated. However there are widely available online behind the scenes footage, where both director as well as DP explain the challenges of creating whole movie using continues tracking shoot, which follows two protagonists who are Lance Corporal Blake played by Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay playing Lance Corpal Schofied. Both young army man during the First World War are given an impossible mission to deliver a message deep in enemy territory that will stop 1,600 men, and one of the soldiers' brothers, from walking straight into a deadly trap. As the story unfolds we are following them through the trenches and obstacles trying to fiulfil their mission.
At first when I though that this movie will be shown in real time using continues take with edits hidden in wipes (movement of the camera which lingers on wall or other objects permitting seamlessly to connect two scenes together in editing making it look as one continues take) I was unsure. When I first heard that "1917" employed this technique I feared that it might be used as gimmick, however when I find out that Roger Deakens is involved in the project I knew Sam Medes's picture was in good hands. Most people will not understand how much work it takes to create movie this way. The control of focus and the light alone is a very difficult task. However if one take tracking shot technique isn't used for the narrative purpose, then whole film potentially could fail. That's where Sam Mendes directing comes in to play, who also co-wrote the screenplay which he based on a very personal story of his grandfather's experiences in WWI titled"The Autobiography of Alfred H. Mendes 1897-1991".
Sam Mendes is a special director, we could point to many movies which prove this argument. From "American Beauty" to my favourite Bond to date in "Skyfall". He is a director who is able to convey emotion, without being overly dramatic. There is a subtleness within which he is able to covey inner emotions of the character by using not only actors performance, but utilising blocking (movement of actors in relation to camera) in a landscape scope of the composition. Film of this sort only works if the audience truly feels like they are on a journey together with our protagonists and big credit for doing so needs to be given to musical score which is used to convey danger, emotionality and melancholy when needed.
The reason why this film works is because all of the above mentioned techniques are utilised to tell the story and forward the narration to an emotional impact on the viewer. Yes, the performances are strong, with cameos from Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and charismatic as always Mark Strong, not to mention both leads, but it's the way the story is told, that truly permits the audience to immerse themselves in this WWI epic. After watching "1917" I can honestly say, I strongly believe this picture will receive an OSCAR's for the best film and cinematography (in any other year I would pick the "JOKER" for the best film and cinematography, but this year Roger Deakens should not be denied) and possibly Sam Mendes for having an overview over all these elements, to create arguably best movie of the year, which up to that point this distinction belong in my humble opinion to the "JOKER". I strongly feel Sam Mendes has made his grandfather very proud, in his attempt to bring all the creative pieces together, creating in it's entirety a masterpiece of a movie, which film students will study for years to come.
1917 (2019) ***1/2 Dean-Charles Chapman, George MacKay, Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch. Filmmaker Sam Mendes (who collaborated on the screenplay with Krysty Wilson-Cairns) makes an impressive mark in his Lean like take on the War Picture with the First World War as the setting for two green British soldiers tasked with a grave order - deliver the message to hold off a battle that the enemy has set them up for massive failure. With its one-take gimmick (i.e. the film never breaks action thru its run time), master cinematographer Roger Deakins takes on the Herculean challenge with grave aplomb in making the impossible, possible, not unlike the task set for its young charges.
It's just magnificent work.
There's not much more to say.
For me personally - a masterpiece!
Absolutely brilliant camera work coupled together with a story to remember. Acting was top notch, the movie totally immersed and captivated me. I felt like I was part of the journey myself. The authenticity of the scenes, uniforms and soldiers gears was brilliant to watch and realism created by the environment felt very realistic up to a point of even being shocking. An absolute must watch.
This movie is not about War, it is about a person who is caught in the nightmare of WWI and for 2 hours I stopped being myself and wondered if I could have done it.Sometimes, while watching a really good movie I would get this mysterious surge of energy filling me up with all kinds of emotions and that's when I would know that I am witnessing something truly special. While I have seen some great films in the past few years that I absolutely loved, nothing has felt quite as ecstatic as 1917 which is the best movie that I have experienced since Interstellar.The story depicts WWI but instead of focusing on a major battle, a monumental victory or some grand individual, it chooses to tell the tale of two simple soldiers tasked with delivering a crucial message. It was literally one day of their lives but because it happened during the war, every minute of that day felt like a harrowing experience. There aren't too many word being said and to be honest they are not needed because experiences such as those makenit hard to talk.One shot. Could you imagine a two hour war movie made of only 1 continuous shot? 1917 flows in a smooth motion and on the way it brings us along for the journey unlike any movie that I have seen before. When the bombs exploded the sound was deafening and when the leaves rustled, I could feel the breeze around me. As a history fan, I was pleased with the accuracy of both the decorations and the visible morale of the soldiers. There is a number of powerfully emotional sequences that felt like they were scraping my heart because of the constant proximity to the charaters.1917 is a perfect blend of storytelling, style and technical achievement and I give a deepest bow to Sam Mendes and the team for this symphony of cinema. What I loved is how a number of big name actors appear in this film for a few minutes and yet manage to make a lasting impact on both the protagonists and myself. There are no hidden meanings or forced agendas, just masterful filmmaking that must be experienced in the cinema.As much as I love Saving Private Ryan, this is my new favorite war movie of because it allowed me to feel as one of it's characters.#moviesshmovies
Mendes' World War I epic is riveting as its continuous shot style lends itself to suspenseful action sequences. Highly recommend!
I haven't felt this shook from a war movie (or any movie) in quite sometime. What a feat of cinematography, set production, directing etc etc etc. A perfectly lean story masterfully executed. All the thumbs way up
My word. This will grab you at the start chew you up and spit you out. If this doesn't get an Oscar I'll be very, very surprised. Sorry to go on about this but it was way better than Dunkirk. What a movie! Make sure you go and watch this in the cinema! Don't miss that opportunity. It really does capture the brutality, loss, emotion, heartbreak, waste, struggle and all the realities of what WWI probably was for those soldiers. The cinematography is amazing. It's basically a continuous camera follow shot from start to end with only one obvious cut. I can't stress enough how much you need to go and see this movie. It's not easy to watch by any means but it's a period in our modern history that should be remembered.
Amazing cinematography, gripping storyline and just an amazing two hour journey. Plus, Tommen Baratheon and Rob Stark play brothers.
'1917' is both a WWI film and a masterclass in cinematography. It's not based on one specific true story or battle, but rather the plot is inspired by stories the director's (Mendes) grandfather told him. From the opening scene, it's clear the "real-time" no-cuts concept is going to make the film different, as we meet Corporal Blake (Chapman) and Corporal Schofield (MacKay) and then the camera doesn't leave them for the next 2 hours. They're assigned an urgent mission by a General (Firth), to alert another battalion not to enter what is a German ambush.While set in France, it's filmed in England. The number of extras used is astounding, as is the accuracy of the trenches, barbed wire, ruins and uniforms. The trenches in particular are impressive to see as they walk through them, as they're not just CGI from a distance. From the moment Blake & Schofield step out into no-man's-land, the tension (and score) are ratcheted right up and there's only a few moments of respite.They meet a few helpful soldiers and some Germans on their journey - Captain Smith (Strong) and his troop, Colonel Mackenzie (Cumberbatch) and Blake's brother (Madden). Other than that, only Lauri (Duburcq), a frightened French lady, have any screen time. Thankfully, both the leads are great and easy to cheer for. It's an enthralling ride, with lots of subtle - and not-so-subtle - reminders of the horrors of war. It almost leaves you exhausted, as you feel like you've been on the mission with them.
Roger Deakins is the best cinematographer of all
time. Good story but the cinematography is amazing
What a stunning film, please go see this, I recommend it in imax for the full experience
Spoiler free review of 1917,To be honest it is one of the best war films I have watched. The film was perfectly balanced with shocking scenes that were somehow made to feel like everyday experiences in the way the characters must view them before you realise that what your watching is truly horrifying, then moving into scenes that could draw out a sense of realisation as you remember this was something that people actually went through.The whole range of techniques lent itself to the story telling such as the music, sound effects and use of silence to completely deprive you of comfort or to shift your emotion to exactly the right place. The way to the camera worked made you truly feel like you are there with the characters feeling everything they felt. The acting was phenomenal and made every scene feel tense, happy or lonely depending on how the story progressed.Truly an amazing film that leaves out none of the horrors of war, I would definitely recommend you watch it.
Wonderful movie we're the actors go on and on where it seems without a break
Beautiful, Engrossing, Revealing- A Cinematic Masterpiece. I think everyone should see this movie, whether you like war movies or not, hands down.
I have to say that his year has been very wanting with regards to quality movies, and until seeing this I was convinced that Joker and Joachin, Phoenix would scoop best movie and actor awards across the board. That thought has now been thrown into turmoil as 1917 is a better movie, and the George MacKay portrayal of Schofield is wonderful. How Sam Mendes pulled off the end to end nature of the story in fabulous. I cannot recommend this highly enough, and would suggest the bigger the screen the better......enjoy
I would like to start by saying...so sick of people comparing the new films with past films that they love. Stop, please. Take it as it should be, new films. If you don't like it it's alright but stop comparing.Sam Mendes did a masterful work with this simple but very emotional story. As I was watching the intensity of emotions started to fill me with incredible sorrow, sadness that I couldn't stop crying. I have seen so many movies in my life and I have cried in so many. But in 1917 film created in me an incredible uncontrollable moment of sorrow. I wanted to cry out loud. I believe, this is what is beautiful in this movie. Sam Mendes created a short story profoundly emotional. Masterful Direction, breathtaking cinematography, beautiful musical score, great acting, just love it! This movie does not need character development as many people keep saying. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.I'm just feeling wow with this year's masterful movies. My top eight:
1917
Little Women
The Irishman
Ford Vs Ferrari
Rocketman
A Hidden life
Uncut Gems
Richard Jewell
These are Amazing films!!!
This is just an incredible achievement Sam Mendes pulls off. Not with a stellar cast or massive cinematic universe or anything connecting to it, but with an amazing plot, strong acting, emotion, direction, cinematography, screenplay, and score. Everything about this movie is amazing. The camera work in this makes it all feel like the entire movie in one shot. I don't think I've EVER felt like I was in the movie, with the characters, till now. It is tied for my 3rd favourite movie EVER! This is a must watch that'll blow your mind.
Enjoyed every frame. Enough said. Thanks and goodnight.
So rare nowadays to watch a movie that has good actors and a good script. Sometimes I think that one out of ten movies is worth watching. 1917 is really really good and. Highly recommend watching it, thank me later.
I've always been a nerd when it comes to historical wars. I enjoyed this film on the grounds that it tells the story with the gloves off. I felt invested because I felt like I was truly there with the characters. Saving Private Ryan similarities in the editing and storytelling. Highly recommend.
After viewing the trailer for this film I thought it would be nothing special. I thought this movie would be mediocre and dull. However, this movie has completely blown my expectations away. Shortly after the film begins, you are sucked in and feel the urgency that the film is trying to display to the viewer. You are on the edge of your seat waiting to see what happens next. A true masterpiece and definitely one, if not the best, movie of 2019, and it is definitely one of the greatest films about war ever created.
I just saw the film and I was mesmerized by the cinematography by Roger Deakins. It is so perfect and spotless. I liked both the actors, David Chapman and George Mackay. The casting was amazing because these two guys had their own looks which worked very well for both of them. One was innocent looking and other was stern looking. You keep rooting for one in the beginning and then later it changes. When I went to the theatre I told myself I am not going to cry and stay strong but at one point I just could not hold it anymore. A tear fell when he meets the brother.
Personally I see NO reason it was ashyped as it was abd found it quite boring. Not climactic events, very few mediocre action scenes and honestly poorly written. Nothing about it was gripping nor had me on the edge of my seat in the slightest. I don't expect full action and killing all the time in a war movie to enjoy it but this was just flat-out very boring.
I'M GLAD I HAD A BIG BAG OF POPCORN BECAUSE WITHOUT IT I WOULD HAVE DOZED OFF A COUPLE OF TIMES.... NO REAL CONNECTION TO THE CHARACTERS ... and it is NOT A TRUE STORY,,,, its a tale Mendes grandpa told to him when he was young
This movie looks amazing. Easy Oscar for cinematography. But it was boring and a lot of nonsense from story point.The things that didnt made sense:
1. Why they send only 2 soldiers if its that
important?
2. Why did he want to help the enemy?
3. How the hell did at least 100 soldiers and a
caravan get there without any singn?
4. Where did the 100 soldiers go when he
were shot at by the sniper?
And etc. etc.
I wanted to like this movie but i was bored to death.
Wonderful set design and cinematography. The special effects worked well, as did the one continuous shot.
But what really let the film down was the unrealistic characters. In 1917 racism was rampant, and there is no way those working class soldiers from English regiments would have been conversing normally with black people and Sikhs. I grew up in Britain in the 50s and 60s and it wouldn't have happened then, let alone over 100 years ago!
In fact there would have been no people of colour serving as working class cannon fodder in any English regiment. Indians had their own regiments.
Also the soldiers in Yorkshire and Devon regiments would have had very broad regional accents, I couldn't see that any effort had been made to reflect this.
Also I can't imagine the general staff ever talking to a lance corporal, that task would have gone right down the line, probably to a lieutenant.
I am amazed that an English director couldn't bring himself to be more authentic, but I guess he was appealing to audiences beyond his island home, and had to be more inclusive.
First review ever. Short and sweet. I went to view the visual masterpiece in hopes of being in awe. I wasn't impressed. It was interesting, but not enough to wow me or any of the others in the half filled theater. Based on a true story to some degree, but really lacking. I never felt drawn in emotionally like many other good war films. It wasn't bad by any means, I just think most people would place this near the bottom of the top 25 war movies. Clichs abound. Above average war torn scenery. Two or three intense scenes. I struggled with a 7 but feel like it deserved extra for the cinematography alone.
Don't waste your money in this so called "One Shot Epic Battle" movie. Overrated AF. Cinematography is ok, not "LEGENDARY". Plot is bad & music is also typical "EPIC" or nothing new. If you are really a fan of battles etc, please go & watch GoT battles (Far better than this garbage). Original rating is 4/10 but 1/10 is because of Overrated & all the hype around this movie. Congratulations 1917 for taking the number 1 spot from Marriage Story .
I enjoyed this film, but not as much as I was hoping I would.There were a number of things which took place that absolutely would not have happened during WWI, or any war for that matter.The acting is superb, and the dialogue is well written.The cinematography is amazing, and the visually are stunning.It is slow paced, but not in a terrible way, yet also not in a great way either.It's right in the middle.I recommend seeing this movie and deciding for yourself.
And will continue watching but OMG I hope I do not fall a sleep.Private Ryan comparison? NO WAY, unless this movie does a complete turn around in the last hour. I rate the first 1 hr as a 3 and even if it gets better I can not see it getting past a 5 rating. I will finish watching now. OK last 15 minutes shot my ranking up to a 5 rating for the last hour but still only gets a 4 rating from me
Fell asleep 15 mins into the movie , i duno whats good about this movie besides making me fell asleep so fast
First off i actually can't believe the people rating this 1 star. they shouldn't be allowed anywhere near a movie review as they are clearly clinically insane.This movie isn't Saving Private Ryan, nor is it expected to be.. so please don't go into this movie expecting the same level of action, gore etc. There are parts that are quiet, this is a realistic take on war.. its not all gun fights and explosions from start to end.. this a take on the every-man and the brotherhood they form, it is a masterpiece in its own way.. a truly suspenseful thrill ride, that leaves you on the edge of your seat from start to finish. It's what Dunkirk should have been.Visually this film is one of the best i have ever seen. Roger Deakins best work to date as a cinematographer, if he doesn't win the Oscar for a second time for this then the awards are rigged.the story doesn't suffer for the sake of the one shot film direction, it is an emotional roller coaster with some superb acting, especially George Mackay who shines in this movie.Please go into this movie open minded, and watch it in a theatre on the big screen. the only way this masterpiece should be experienced. the visuals, the score, the performances were outstanding.. Best Movie I've seen in so many years.. What an experience !
When one hears a politician boasting of the armament that his country possesses, one claiming that he has the mother of weapons, the other the father, while some "cockerels" of the third world are also doing nearly the same, those who do not solve food and housing and in the end they end up offering slogans with death as an inescapable promise, it is because those presidents or supposed courageous men have never been in war. The film "1917 (2019)" of British director Sam Mendes, based on the stories of a family predecessor who had the misfortune to participate in World War I, is a clear example of the number of lives lost in a war, the pains that cause in the families of the fallen ones and the economic damages that it causes. This film reflects the damage with many details, one of them is the hatred among rival soldiers, to the point of assaulting when they are doing you a favor of life or death. Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay, both managed to attract all the attention of the public throughout the film and their performance was such that they looked like the same soldiers on the battlefield. They managed to bring reality to the big screen. There were no foolish scenes of those vulgar war movies that show non-existent supermen in those confrontations. It is a quality film, with a real plot, well-designed fiction, and excellent photography.
I saw this movie fully anticipating it to be a spectacle, not knowing much of the story. In conclusion, I can say, this is exactly the mindset to have. Yes, the plot may not have been majorly intricate. But this movie is perfect for what it was. It was a beautiful and absolutely heartbreaking yet simple story, told through the brilliant eyes of Sam Mendes.This movie was the first that I have seen in a very long time that left me staring at the screen with chills. There were moments where I thought to myself how fantastic it was to be able to see such a visually stunning marvel of a movie in theaters. The acting, the music, the emotion, the direction, and the overall visual poetry of this movie were astounding.If you want to get caught up in a tale full of plot-twists and character backstory, then no, it might not be the movie for you. But, honestly, that's not at all what I'm expecting out of a WW1 movie.
If you want something that will both break your heart and fill it, something that is so visually enthralling that you won't be able to take your eyes off of the screen, and something that spotlights some of the best acting of the generation, then 1917 is absolutely the movie for you.
The best movie I have ever seen. If you can, GO AND WATCH IT
I was left speechless by the end. Absolutely stunning and gripping. I felt as if I was actually in the movie being carried along by this incredible story. A masterpiece! 10/10
Best film I've seen in a very long time. Alot of work has gone into this film and the cinematography is world class.
I don't think the trailers do this movie justice, this truly is one of the best war movies to date. The tension this film has its able to hold it though out. Despite little dialogue it works and we get to know these characters and we feel connected to them and that is very rare in a war film. But the best part is the cinematography by Roger Deakins this movie is so beautiful even though it takes place in a horrific environment. What Sam Mendes is able to do behind the camera as well making the whole film look like a continuous take that is a mind of a genius, and even through the slow moments of the movie that camera moving makes us invested and in for the ride !
I've been watching BTS videos of 1917 all week, wanting to know all about how the one shot filming process was done. Went into the film worrying that I'd hyped myself up and would be disappointed. I sure wasn't. 1917 is a masterpiece, from start to finish, gorgeous shot, beautifully acted, the music is stunning, every emotion conveyed is felt to its fullest, with such a dynamic score, from the rising tension in the bunkers, to the epic buildup during the trench run.
1917 also manages to convey the horrors of war, both physical and mental, without relying heavily on gore, it's a good balance.
I could not recommend this film any higher, do yourself a favour and watch it while it's in cinemas
I was mesmerized by the technology used to produce this movie. This overshadowed the wonderful story and fabulous acting.
The best movie best realistic movie from that time is mesmerising me!!
One of the most unbelievable, jaw-dropping, gut-wrenching, beautiful films I have ever seen. A film that is an experience, a film that sweeps you through an absolutely brutal, yet beautiful journey. Sam Mendes's screenplay (co-written with Krysty Wilson-Cairns) is absolutely terrific, matched by his brilliant direction. The acting is top-notch; George MacKay (Schofield), Dean-Charles Chapman (Blake), and every single member of this incredible cast play their roles to perfection. The cinematography is astonishing and unbelievable; the entire film is two shots. (Not one, but two; at one point the film cuts to black). Two. Shots. Let that sink in. What Mendes and Roger Deakins have done here is absolutely astonishing. You feel as if you are pulled into the trenches with Blake and Schofield; in No-Man's-Land and German territory alongside them. Thomas Newman's score is beautiful, along with the incredible editing of Lee Smith. This is an absolutely glorious masterpiece, and not only the best film of 2019, but one for the ages.
It seems like every war movie in the last 20 years has been described as the "best war movie since Saving Private Ryan." This one really is. Few movies have given me such a visceral reaction to what I'm watching. 1917 grips the heart and mind and doesn't stop. An absolutely incredible film.
Excellent cinematography & acting. Very powerful. Would highly recommend this movie.
Stunningly shot with amazing visuals. 1917 does not glorify war. It shows how brutal and devastating war can be. I absolutely loved the movie.
Twenty years ago Sam Mendes changed story telling by doing a film around a dysfunctional american suburban family winning an Oscar with American Beauty. In 2020 he may have struck Gold again with this beautifully shot and inspirational story in 1917.Done entirely in what seems to be three seperate shots (not seen to this detail since Rope) we are with our characters throughout the whole story of two British military officers charged with the operation to deliver the message to stop an assault on the German Army. The realism is there as Mendes puts you there with every heartbeat and breath felt as they feel it.The fact is, this film potentially will get best picture and deservedly so.
Only on Imax. What a great experience it was. I was breathless afterwards.
I know that everybody who has seen and reviewed this movie has mentioned this one aspect of the movie but it's the best thing in this movie and that's the way it was filmed and edited to look like a long one-shot. While I was watching this movie, I was playing a fun game in my head of find where they matched the scene up and some parts it was obvious where they ended one scene and matched it to start the next but there were a lot of ones I couldn't figure out where they stopped filming and matched it up for a new scene. This just goes to show how great the editors on this movie were and when it comes time for the Oscars, they get a nomination for best editing. Despite this movie being a war movie there isn't a whole lot of action happening, sure there are a couple of scenes of action but it's not reliant on action, this movie is not boring in the slightest. There is so much to look at and admire about this movie like the cinematography and set design. Just like with editing I hope this movie gets a nomination for best cinematography because there were some outstanding shots that encompass the lighting. I wish I could go further into this but sadly I can't and you just need to see the movie for yourself to understand why. The set design helped bring the audience members into the movie with how accurate the sets looked. When they were in a trench you felt like you were in there with them and when they were out in the open you felt scared for them. In other words, you felt like a fly in the air following them on this journey. In the end, 1917 is just a spectacular war movie and is perfect for people who both love and or hate war movies, this is coming from someone who isn't the biggest fan of them. I have a good feeling this movie will become a classic war film.
This may be one of the greatest movies of all time. It is the most immersive experience I have ever undergone. The visuals are so beautiful and disturbing at the same time. However, I think this needs to be seen in theaters to get the full effect. Don't Miss This!!!!
The story is amazing! Completely original and unpredictable! The best part is the cinematography! The film hides cuts and allows a continuous shot throughout. The film makers took especially great care of where the camera is pointing at all times. I highly recommend!
1917 is wonderfully shot but poorly written. Each of the approximately 9-minute segments is neatly interwoven into the next, but it's not enough.First, 1917 is more of a bad thriller than a good drama. Early jump-scares keep you on your toes, but predicting the next jump-scare becomes more important than the story itself because there is little story to begin with. Surprisingly; it is only when the lead characters are being shot at that you feel they are safe.Second, the film does not find balance. Clich writing gives the impression that things conveniently "work out," while body-strewn battlefields contradict that impression. The result is a feeling of being caught in the crossfire between idealism and realism. I left feeling like I had dipped my toes in two pools without diving into either.
2019 was one of the best years for cinema I have ever seen and 1917 is one of the best of the year, if not the best, it deserves all the praise that is having, due to several factors, if possible watch it on IMAX, the experience is completely unforgettable, there are scenes in that we are in the skin of the characters and the cinematography of Roger Deadkins makes all the difference, Oscar for sure in this category, there are some emotional scenes where the music is magnificent and the performances of both main actors, mainly George Mackay. In other words, a cinematic masterpiece.
I liked the single shot narrative, which worked really well....the story is very simple....nothing too graphic...with a few surprises. Not in the same league as Saving Private Ryan though...in my opinion...Worth watching.
1917
2020
Director: Sam Mendes
Starring Dean Charles chapman, George makay, Colin Firth, Richard Madden.Bendadict Cumberbatch etc
1917 is based within the first world war. Where a battalion of 1,600 soldiers are sent to retreat the Germans but what they don't realise is that it's a trap and a massacre. So, it's down to Corporal Blake (Dean Charles chapman) and corporal Schofield (George makay) to stop this from happening but they will be met with multiple challenges along the way. Wow what a truly incredible movie that hit the mark on every level, visuals, acting and a compelling story lets talk more about this.First, the cinematography was stunning. This film really was firstly phenomenal to look at, and secondly really transported you into the world of the film, and it really made you feel a part of the time, with its scarily realistic set designs and scenery truly making you feel like you were in the battlefield with them. Leading to a truly phenomenal film just to look at and I was often sitting in awe of the film. The visual creativity as well was of the chart, making me truly respect the artistry of Sam Mendes with what he can create.Next the film really made you connect with the two main characters and their performances were fantastic. Due to the film largely being focused on just two characters it gave you more time to truly connect and spend more time with them as there friendship developed throughout the film, so they actually made a good decision by having more secondary characters with only a couple of scenes and two key characters to connect and focus on. And the performance from both Dean Charles Chapman and George Makay were truly fantastic. Considering that I had never heard of either of these two actors before they surprised me at there acting abilities. They showed emotional complexity of what it would be like being a soldier in the war, in truly versatile performances, hitting all the right notes with both serious, impactful and emotional scenes.Next the film did not hold back with showing the harsh reality of war with its gore and action sequences. In order for the film to leave the impact that it did, gory scenes showing the true horrors of war was needed, and it was most certainly shocking to watch. The film did a great job at getting under your skin with surprisingly very realistic looking bodies. A key scene that stands out to me would be when corporal Schofield, is swimming in a lake trying to get on the shore, but there is a large amount of bodies that he had to swim through in order to save himself, this scene truly left one of the biggest impact for me, and I am glad the director did not hold back with showing what war was really like, and especially glad that he didn't play it safe.
My only slight nit-pick that stopped the film from being truly perfect for me was that I felt that they could have been slightly more creative with the films character arcs and development. The film didn't show a lot of back story to the main characters, which I got as it was more about the developing friendship, however it would have been nice to have learned slightly more about them, but this is only a slight nit-pick. As well as the death of corporal Blake I felt could have been saved for the final act, yes this gave corporal Scofield the motivation to find his brother, but perhaps another scenario for the film could have been where Blake reunites with his brother and then gets killed whilst the Germans were attacking, but once again I didn't have an issue with what they did but this could have been how this particular death could have been placed slightly differently.Next, I thought the film managed to achieve an extremely tense tone and well executed jump scares. The film in a lot of places didn't have any soundtrack, which worked perfectly as I felt on the edge of my seat throughout the whole film, and I also think fear of the unknown for the audience and for the characters on the screen also made the film very tense as well. And due to this lack of sound in places there was a surprising amount of well executed jumpscares. These were largely just explosions or gun shots, but they happened completely out of the blue which I was not expecting but it was a welcome surprise for me.My next two positives would be the films surprising amount of emotional weight and its incredible final act. Wow this film was surprisingly emotional, just seeing the large body count throughout, truly made me realise whilst watching how pointless war is, and I think that's a good message to spread. And to have corporal Blake get killed was extremely heart-breaking, due to him not being able to see his brother and the connection he had formed with Scofield you could really tell how sad he was feeling which is another credit to there acting abilities. And the long drawn out scene of his death really allowed the audience time for what just happened to sink in, therefore making it even more emotional to watch. The final act was truly one of the best things I have ever seen. Sam Mendes did an excellent job at misleading you into what was going to happen, he could of easily went the predictable root and just let the message be delivered, but no the soldiers were already on the battlefield when Scofield was attempting to deliver the message. They went all out with fantastic cinematography, surprising cameos and an impactful ending with Blakes brother which really worked as a show of respect for the character and to make you leave the film satisfied.However, my final biggest positive would be how the film managed to look like one continuous take. Wow what a clever creative decision here. Yes, there was clearly a few cuts, but they were very well disguised and didn't affect the flow of the movie. Having one continuous take really gets you immersed in the film, and makes you feel like you are there with the characters truly leading to excellent experience whilst watching, as you connected with the characters more and it makes you feel like part of the movie.Overall 1917 is a true cinematic masterpiece and deserving of all its awards buzz. With a fantastically acted and fantastically crafted immersive film that might be my favourite of the year.
1917 wasn't your average, soldiers-are-heroes, flag-waving, god-bless-the-military, good-guy-vs.-bad-guy, propaganda piece. This was a cinematic work of art. Roger Deakins is a god among men and will win his second Oscar. Thomas Newman deserves his first for his soaring, amazing score. Dennis Gassner's sets, well - no words. George McKay was terrific in the lead role and the supporting players were all excellent.
I once read that the top two reasons people go to the movies are to laugh and to scream. Those are probably the blithering idiots who gave this film one star, calling it "boring." You people have no idea what you just watched.
Walking. Talking. Walking more. Shot like one continuous line so the parts in between the boring and less boring parts are just walking in silence. Characters weren't memorable or had any depth. Story was ant-climactic and and not worth sitting through. Waste. Of. Time.
More an exercise in film-making than entertainment. Music totally inappropriate for a modern audience. I just didn't like the approach of the single camera set-up. I want to see actors interacting, not a disembodied voice off-screen. And the lack of a physical face-to-face enemy took away a lot of the terror of war. I love war movies but maybe this isn't really one! Just left me feeling flat. 5/10 for effort. (viewed 1/2020)
The movie was beautifully shot but it was soooooooo slow. I couldn't stand just watching the characters walk, and walk, and walk. It was pretty frustrating and boring. Anyways, the movie is not as great as everyone else is saying.
The list of great films about war will not include 1917. Kubrick's Paths of Glory is about people; 1917 is about actors. Costa Gavras brilliant Battle of Algiers will be there. Downfall. Mash.
The director of 1917 was distracted by the technical concept and many of the sequences are impressive; in the way that a clever ride in a theme park may be impressive. Nothing more.
After all the hype and the user ratings at 10/10, I couldn't wait to see this film thinking another 'Saving Private Ryan' was waiting..... Unlike SPR and the tour de force Normandy landing seen, which left me in shock, 1917 just doesn't ever get going. The only suspenseful moment was which way Benedict Cumberbatch's character was going decide. A decent enough film but a classic, not a chance.
(Short Review)Movie Name - 1917
Director - Sam Mendes
This movie is better than Dunkirk for sure but still no big gem or anything. This movie's story is average and with same drama of many war movies. The reason putting this over Dunkirk is cuz of its execution and direction overall. The writing was nothing profound but this movie's direction is pretty smooth, and with that direction, the whole movie's experience is watchable and feels soothing to experience it. The open-world here is really a big plus point of this movie. The universe is filled with detail and a proper detail indeed. The soldier were shown in many personalities of their own, this is something Dunkirk highly lacked and even when they changed personality of any character it was done in such one-dimensional way and also, with weird dramatic way, it was feeling more fabricated than it feels in this movie. The subtle maturity and a life in characters is more visible in this movie than Dunkirk. The gimmick of one-shot worked perfectly for an intense journey of a soldier.
Great movie. A must watch. Really enjoyed it. Great acting and everything. Hollywood needs to make more movies like this.
What a war movie to start the new decade with. With raw and visceral directing capturing the heartbreaking reality of WWI, the film follows the character of Will Schnoner who travels across with his brother to the other side of the battlefield to end the conflict. It is some of Mende's best work and is my second favourite of his now behind Skyfall. It is also in my opinion the best film on Britan vs Germany in WWI and is my personal favourite war film since Saving Private Ryan.It's gripping, emotional, human and real which conveys a lot about the British Battalion with the minimal but careful use of dialogue between each of the characters. Colin Firth and Bennedict Cumberbatch were very enjoyable with the screen time they were in and the musical score was also very powerful
The filming is good but other then that it's a very forgettable war movie. The story has potential but it just seems like the writers chose a bunch of WW1 tropes and added them haphazardly into an hour and a half movie. I went to see this movie after I saw it had a 8.5 out of 127000 votes so it was super disappointing when it turned out to be average. If you see this movie go in with no expectations and itll be decent. As for me, I thought it was hot garbage.
Nicely directed and edited. Fine acting and camera work. The set design was wonderful. The story was Swiss cheese.I enjoyed 1917, but I wasn't blown away by the film. Mendes is a wonderful director and I'll pay to see his work any day of the week. All that being said, he cheated. The one shot gimmick was used well. They managed to hide the cuts in post and in camera. I was impressed. Then Mendes cheated. He had the character lose consciousness, fade to black, fade into several hours later. This could have easily been avoided if the characters just left hours later in the day.As for the story, well, it's pretty straight forward - Guy must deliver a message before it's too late. Not much room for anything else. Yet, we still ended up with the usual war movie tropes. I found myself rolling my eyes at times. Additionally, there was a poor use of time and space in the film.It wasn't enough to make me dislike the film, but this is not a Best Picture or Best Director. Maybe Best Production Design. Maybe Best Editing. However, there are far more superior films nominated. 1917 is worth a look in the theater, but don't go in with big expectations. The 10 and 1 reviews are out of their minds.
It has too many questionable historical situations (see the list of goofs). Also, the "single shot" cinematography asks us to believe that everything happened in 2 hours, plus the time the soldier was unconscious.
From the very first frame of "1917", it is abundantly clear that the film is going to hang its hat on cinematography and technical prowess. Truth be told, that aspect is indeed so good that I'd never consider dropping it below the seven stars I gave it. That being said, I really can't vault it into the stratosphere of my celluloid favorites either, due to it being relatively short in the plot department.For a very basic overview, "1917" tells the story of two British WWI soldiers who are tasked with relaying a very important message to an adjacent line: the Germans are not retreating, but instead regrouping for a trap. So, Lance Corporals Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) set off across the dangerous French countryside to relay the message. Along the way, they encounter numerous obstacles and meet a string of individuals both friend and foe. Adding further emotional stakes to the proceedings is the fact that Blake's brother is one of the soldiers about to be sent over the trench and into the trap.There is absolutely no doubt that the visuals here are splendid. Noted cinematographer Roger Deakins truly does work his magic. Whether running through the trenches, navigating the muddy quagmires of no-man's land, or simply traversing the countryside, this truly is a sight to behold. Of course, the thing everyone is talking about is how the film looks like one long take (not true, of course, but expertly camouflaged). While I found that to be technically more of a "gimmick" than anything, it does structurally provide the forward momentum that a film like "1917" needs.Which, actually, brings me to why this movie will never be one of my favorites. Perhaps this is as much personal preference as anything, but I just need more plot "meat" to sink my teeth into. Because the characters are always rushing forward on some urgent task or plight, there are precious few times to stop and really be at all introspective about what is happening. This isn't so much noticed "in the moment" when the action is hot-and-heavy, but upon conclusion my thoughts rolled more towards "what am I actually taking away from this experience?", with (unfortunately) the answer being "not all that much" in terms of overall plot/themes.So, the way I see "1917" is that if it doesn't win all or most of the technical or cinematography awards at the Oscars, it will be a shame. But is it in the territory of Best Picture? I would argue no...there just isn't enough substance to take that leap.
As technically impressive as it is, it should only work to serve the entire larger goal. Mostly, 1917 succeeded, seamlessly & un-distractingly placing us within the mud-covered boots of young men forced into war. At others, I was too focused on it, constantly trying to pinpoint where the "edit-cheats" were hiding. Ultimately, it's a war movie more about adrenalin & inspiration that brains or ethics...not bad, I just think I'm more interest in the latter.
While the movie was enjoyable, it doesn't live up to the accolades it's receiving.The stylistic long shots are a welcome change of pace in an era where 3-second clips are spliced together have become the norm. The flaw in pacing the entire movie in the characters' real-time is it doesn't allow much meat on the bone when it comes to story or character depth. It's too much of a good thing.
It felt like watching Transformers but from the WWI set. The music felt totally out of place, thus being very repetitive in style and over scored. Couldn't make the connections.
The acting and direction were boring. Actors were generally too soft and too welcoming between each other. The environment lost its hostility based on the XXI century kindness represented in the movie. Horrifying in that sense.
The script had potential but many obvious Transformers like dialogue lines.
The makeup felt wrong at all times. All actors and extras seemed to have come directly out of a very nice shower. Actors would only look stained (as well as their clothes) after accidents, though they still managed to somehow be quite clean again.
I believe there lacked studying of this historial matter in every sense.
Visually, the lightning was very well achieved, and most of the camera shots were very nice, though sometimes the movements were a bit overdone.
CGI was noticeable in the ground explosions... even in the 70's they made it better than today. Sometimes it's just better to simulate the real thing. It's even cheaper than CGI.
I wanted to like "1917," but it did very little for me. Among my issues with it:For the first hour, the camera work repeatedly gave me motion sickness. That has never before happened to me at a movie.The CGI is horrible.To call the characters one-dimensional is to be charitable. They're not even characters so much as game pieces.The suspense scenes did not fill me with suspense; the scenes depicting acts of humanity struck me as emotionally manipulative.If delivery of the message is so important, why send two inexperienced corporals on foot instead of dispatching a pilot to fly the message to the front?Who milked the cow? And how did her milk magically become drinkable between the udder and the bucket?Since Corporal Schofield spent so much time immersed in a river, how did the letter he was carrying stay dry enough to be legible to Colonel MacKenzie?And don't be fooled by Benedict Cumberatch's being second billed. He appears on screen for all of three minutes."1917" is not a bad movie. But with all the hype and advance praise (not to mention its two Golden Globes), I was expecting much better than this poorly written (though beautifully photographed) cliche fest.Sorry, Golden Globes, you got it wrong this year. Best Picture should have gone to THE IRISHMAN, and Best Director to Martin Scorsese. Here's hoping the Oscars won't repeat your mistakes.
Waste of time. Wait until it hits the redbox if you must see it.
Only the settings of the battlefield looked pretty good, but asking two young men without enough battle experiences instead of ordering two battle-seasoned old guys to infiltrate behind the enemy line, trying to deliver a warning to another British Battle group was just too ridiculous to swallow. What we saw in this movie was nothing but watching two guys trudging through trenches, bombed holes filled with filthy rainwater and corpses, bob wires...followed with the boring camera for most part of this boring movie. The only tension was when they met a German pilot after his airplane crashed next to them, then.....nothing.Compare to "Dunkirk 2017", this movie really sucks big time, don't know how this boring movie would win the Best Picture of the 77th Golden Globe award.
Not worth a penny.
I really wanted to like this but kept seeing jarring flaws that ruined the experience and found myself rolling my eyes. The Blake character seemed grossly overweight for a WW1 soldier, as though he'd been eating pizza every night. Even though they'd been given information that the German's had pulled back they seemed blase about wandering around in "No Man's Land" (despite being terrified of going over the top just moments before), and seemed horrified by the sight of a dead horse despite WW1 soldiers being used to seeing human remains on a daily basis (Schofield is supposedly a Somme veteran). The German's could have left snipers, no matter it soon became a stroll in the park (at one point discussing Apple blossom). They observed aircraft flying overhead without a care in the world, out in the open, despite the possibility that they might be strafed by them, or set off a Booby trap in an abandoned German bunker which resulted in Schofield merely getting dust in his eyes. The Schofield character walks across the top of a damaged bridge when he could have crawled across, sure enough a German sniper sees him (but couldn't hit a barn door of course.) Minutes before there were British soldiers galore at the very spot, but the Germans didn't see them somehow? Much has been made of the Sikh soldier. Of course there were many Sikh soldiers helping the British in WW1, but normally in their own units, and despite seeing several in the film, West Indian soldiers were not mixed in with English line regiments like the Devons. The list is almost endless, and it's a pity, because a great deal of money and effort was put into the sets, uniforms and so on. The WW1 film "Journey's End" (2017) is a vastly superior effort, and yet received only a fraction of the attention that this film has had.
Excellent set design and cinematography, but the "single take" gimmickry didn't work for me at all. Two hours is too long to see the main character on the screen 100% of the time. Looked at my watch about 80 minutes in because it was getting boring. Much of the action was pretty "overdone" unbelievable, and I felt there wasn't really any "payoff" in the ending- it left me flat. Finally... if you don't see this movie on a big, theater screen then don't bother because the "spectacle" of it will be lost and the story/character side of this movie just isn't that good.
I thought 1917 had a lot going for it: good acting, amazing cinematography, and a good story. The issue was that there wasnt much story within the story. You have the two main characters, and you do get into the mission at hand; however, there wasnt much going on other than a constant following of them moving to get from point A to point B. I do not see how people are putting this on a level of say Saving Private Ryan. That movie had so much more going on, including way more characters, better screenplay, and an equally good if not better storyline. I rated this a 7, and I think it should settle between 7-7.5.
Why not drop the message from their plane ... what was a major use for them in WW1? Germans had a planned strategic retreat, you would think they take their guns with them. They were only destroyed when they had no time to take them? All those empty shells? My grandparents were asked to give pots and pans for the war effort! All these single Germans getting drunk and not able to aim properly do not strike me as an organized new front line. He came upon the truck with Brits and did not tell the officer about the new situation but the soldiers? Coming to find the group he wanted to warn, they were in hiding in a forest but singing... yeah right! The whole story is so unbelievable and besides a story line that can be told in one minute, I did not find the cinematography that great.
Extraordinary stuff, put together to seem like one continuous shot with the camera dancing rings around the characters. It is virtually impossible to see any cuts, the whole thing, apart from a fade-out/ fade-in two thirds the way through, appears to happen in two hours of real-time.The script is intelligent and loaded. "When you give the orders (to abort the attack) to Colonel Mackenzie, make sure there are witnesses. Some people like to fight.", the settings are astonishing, the camerawork remarkable. And the story is riveting. The sequence where the protagonist runs 300 yards across the field of advancing soldiers must be one of the great sequences in movie history.
It is difficult not to wax lyrical about this filmIt's clear to see why this won Best Dramatic Film at the Golden Globes, and it now seems destined to win the 2020 Best Film Oscar, too ( a week away at time of writing). Certainly a second Oscar must be a formality for Sam (American Beauty) Mendes as director.
Alas, I had hoped for an Oscar win for Quentin Tarrantino. Unless the Acadeny has an attack of sentimentality at ignoring the great Tarantino for so long, that is a forlorn hope.However, I'll bet on him getting his THIRD screenplay Oscar.Film as a creative art form, despite the plethora of Disney remakes and Star Wars rehashes, is alive and well.
A work of art.
Don't watch if you want another glorious "America conquers all" movie or a Mel Gibson style big speeches that swell your chest with pride and emotion.
1917 will make you very uneasy with it's intense underlying tone and fast paced action.
I gave this movie a chance after hearing how ambitious the film style was, purely for the cinematic experience and realised at the end that I could actually say for the first time that I loved a war film.
I'm a huge WWI buff and had to rate this 10/10.
Everything about this movie was spot on, even the filming setting, looked remarkably like the landscape of the Somme.
Stunning cinematography and could not fault the actors in the slightest. Barely touched my popcorn in the cinema as I was on the edge of my seat the entire film.
Absolutely Brilliant.
Words cannot describe how good this movie is. One of the best movies ever made and an incredible achievement in cinema. I genuinly have no idea how they managed to film some of the shots in this movie. Incredible cinematography, acting, music, sound design, set design, characters, story, pacing, immersion, everything is incredible about this movie. If you have the opportunity, go watch this in IMAX, this movie is the best cinema experience I've ever had.
I went in on 2 hours of sleep, delusional off of sleep deprivation. Zoning out at the beginning without any caffeinated drink or popcorn, but the second the action picked up I couldn't keep my eyes off the screen. Beautifully directed, beautifully shot film!
1917 is simply the best cement experience I have ever had. If you have the option then define fly see this in the Dolby Cinema and take it in. The tense moments and somber silence was all just simply beautiful. The buildup and high stakes made the movie get more and more tense And the payoff is simply spectacular.
What a well made cinematic triumph. Best character driven war film for a long while..
Don't get me wrong, this movie is riveting. And it will probably win Oscars. But I left feeling that Mendes should have done better. As another reviewer has commented, it felt like a FPS with the character moving through a number of vaguely related scenes overcoming all the set obstacles. My questions are:
Who milked the cow and why didn't they take the milk?
When all other cattle were slaughtered by retreating Germans, why not this one?
Has Mendes actually been to Picardy? It's a flat swamp, with not a fast running rocky sided stream within 100 km. My grandfather was injured in May 1917 at Bullecourt, the village next up the road from coust; I know what this countryside looks like.
This is like actually being there in the war. The film leaves a long lasting impact of getting some sense of what it was like in world war 1. Superbly made - excellent acting. Well worth seeing on the big screen
The amount of work that goes into shooting this movie alone should convince people to watch it. Preferably in a cinema or a very large TV where it can be truly appreciated.All is filmed to appear as a single shot, always following the perspective of two British soldiers. The Oscar for Best Cinematography is guaranteed and I even dear to say that Best Director should be as well.The story is simple - two soldiers must deliver a message to a Batallion deep in enemy lines in order to prevent an offense which will result in certain death. As simple as the premise is, I was on the edge of my seat every step of the way. Always living the same emotions as Corporals Blake and Schofields.When a movie is stunning to watch and keeps me glued to the screen for two hours simultaneously... well, I can't ask for much more.A solid 9/10, and one of the best war movies I have ever seen
Very intense and touching story. You can feel the excitement and the heartbreak as if you're there. It's really a must-watch.
Please give the authors all the money so we can watch more movies like this. This is the perfect example of a great movie. Totally recommend to watch this!
If you enjoy reading my Spoiler-Free reviews, please follow my blog :)Let me just take a deep breath... Wait, one more... Uff, I have no idea how I survived this IMAX screening of 1917. Usually, I don't delve deep into technical stuff since most people don't know or don't care about these attributes, but it's impossible not to address Roger Deakins' cinematography. It's not the first time a film has been edited to appear as "one shot" (a continuous take), but it never fails to impress me.Alejandro G. Irritu's Birdman, Silent House starring Elizabeth Olsen, or the famous Rope from the one and only Alfred Hitchcock... all produce the same trick. Even Mr. Robot and The Haunting of Hill House have brought us two phenomenal "one shot" episodes, edited as well with the so-called "stitches," meaning that the actual cuts are made to look invisible to the viewer, hence giving that feeling that it's all just one continuous take. Cuts are often applied when a random character is passing in front of the camera; when the latter "pans" (movement similar to a head-turn) over a wall or an object that occupies the whole screen; or when the characters are simply going through a dark area.Sam Mendes, Roger Deakins, and Lee Smith (editor) all work together to deliver the most immersive war movie (probably) ever. Yes, it has a simple premise, and the main narrative is basic, but the remarkable technical achievement elevates this film so freaking much. Even if you don't know the slightest thing about filmmaking or how movies are made, it's impossible to watch this film and not think "something feels different about this one." This is a movie meant to be watched at the biggest, best screen possible. Watching 1917 at home on a TV or a laptop is not going to work at all.Throughout the whole runtime, I felt like I was there with Schofield and Blake. It feels like we are a third soldier going with them on a vital mission to save thousands of lives. I believe 1917 is the best "one shot" film to date (I've been using the quote signs for a reason, don't mistake it for an actual one shot movie), with Birdman as a close second. If the latter deals with a lot more dialogue and acting, the former has dozens of nail-biting sequences featuring shootouts, explosions, and a lot of running/walking/swimming through mud, dead corpses, blood, and way too many nasty rats.I really have no words to describe Roger Deakins' cinematography. It's not merely a film, it's a whole experience. It's not just another cool technical achievement. It's the entire foundation of 1917, and the main reason why so many people are rushing to the theater. However, a lot of people are completely ignoring Lee Smith's work. Don't forget, this isn't an actual one shot movie. If it's been edited to look like one continuous take, and if it actually does appear to be a single take, then the editor should get as much recognition as everyone else. Yes, he doesn't have to work with thousands of cuts (I counted 14, but I'm sure there's more), but they still exist, and he has to make sure no one feels them. And he did so perfectly.My last paragraph concerning the technical aspects has to go to Sam Mendes and Thomas Newman. As the director, Mendes is able to deliver precisely what he envisioned and seamlessly coordinate his actors. Not only has he directed my favorite Bond film (Skyfall), but he also offers one of my favorite war movies of all-time. As for Newman, I just wish that Joker had been released in another year because 1917's score is fantastic. Hildur Gunadttir is likely taking the Oscar for Best Original Score, but if Thomas Newman takes it, I'll still be delighted.A lot of comparisons are being made with Christopher Nolan's Dunkirk. They're similar films regarding the fact that their main goal is to provide the most immersive war experience. Story and character-wise, both movies don't really develop that much. Nolan's film is loved by most critics and audiences all around the world, but one common complaint about it is the lack of character building. I didn't mind that at all because the movie never actually tried to make their characters important. They were just soldiers caught in the worst of situations, similar to 1917. However, I do think the latter does a better job of making us care for the protagonists.George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman's characters have small arcs, but they exist. In the beginning, Blake is the emotional-driven character, while Schofield seems to be the rational one. We, as the audience, care about the mission first, but as time goes by, we learn about their personal traits and motivations. By the end of the film, I was crying. Both play off of each other really well, but it's their dialogue that impresses me the most. What seems to be just a random talk while strolling through an open field of grass, it truly isn't. If it's not meaningful at the time, it's going to be. The acting is more physical than anything, and both deliver outstanding performances.I would say I love 1917 as much as I love Dunkirk. I might be tempted to choose the former due to the "recency effect," but there's one small aspect that negatively affects both. Their replay value is not as high as other films since their technical achievements don't work as well on a regular TV in the comfort of our own home. You will never feel or understand that "immersive experience" that everyone talks about. You won't know what made people to be blown away. You won't love it as much as everyone else. So, please, do NOT miss 1917 in theaters!Sam Mendes, Roger Deakins, and Lee Smith. Director, director of photography, editor. Three key filmmaking roles in the creation of one of the best WWI movies of all-time. Edited to look like one continuous shot, 1917 is a mind-blowing technical achievement, elevated by Deakins' always jaw-dropping cinematography, Thomas Newman emotionally powerful score, Mendes impeccable directing, and Smith's seamless editing. George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman deliver outstanding (physical) performances, but it's the astonishing filmmaking that steals the spotlight. Production design, costume design, sound, you name it. Everything is absolutely perfect. It's meant to be seen at the biggest screen near you since this is an incredibly immersive experience that you won't get at home. It's going straight into my Top10: Best Movies of 2019, and I hope you'll love it as much as I do.Rating: A
Two young British Infantry corporals receive orders from their Company Commander in director Sam Mendes' gripping, often surreal World War I movie "1917" to deliver an urgent message to rescind a planned frontal attack on enemy positions on the Western Front. These two, clean-cut, lads embark on a genuine journey of hardship that nobody expects them to carry out and brave an obstacle course teeming with ravenous rats, lethal German snipers, while their own men try to sidetrack them. The action takes place in trenches, trucks, rivers, forests, and the remains of bombed out villages. Furthermore, they have only so much time to accomplish their mission, and the odds are stacked against them from the start. Heroism has rarely been portrayed in such realistic terms. Moreover, these two boys aren't trigger-happy, bloodthirsty killers, but nave souls who don't have a clue what they have volunteered for once they forge ahead. The tragic catch is that only one of them will survive this nightmare. The one who dies doesn't die shooting it out with German soldiers. Instead, he will die trying to help a downed German aviator escape from his crashed biplane before its flaming fuselage incinerates him. "1917" captures the horror of the War to End All Wars as it was called by the politicians. Although "Apocalypse Now" dealt with the Vietnam War, the two movies reflect the futility of war as well as the humanity of their young men who bore arms in the conflict. What these two fellows experience is unforgettable, but it doesn't depict gung-ho heroics. Instead, men scramble to stay alive and often behave like cowards. Everywhere these two Brits go, they see the many faces of death. Rivers are choked with bloating, ashen-faced corpses, but director Sam Mendes resists the urge to show soldiers getting blown to smithereens or tangled up in their own guts like Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan."
When a British sergeant orders Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman of "The King") to pick somebody to accompany him to headquarters, he doesn't think twice about taking his friend Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay of "Defiance") with him. Schofield isn't especially enthusiastic about the prospect that awaits them, but he tags along with Blake to the C.O.'s tent. General Erinmore (Colin Firth of "Kingsman: The Secret Service") shows them several maps of the Western Front as well as aerial photographs and explains that the Germans have abandoned their trenches. Initially, the High Command thought this represented a triumph. Instead, Erinmore explains the Germans not only deliberately left the battlefield, but also these sly Huns are orchestrating a Trojan Horse trap. When the British launch their next attack, they will be unwittingly feeding their troops into a German meat grinder. As it turns out, Corporal Blake has been chosen not only for his map reading skills, but also because his brother, Lieutenant Joseph Blake (Richard Madden of "Rocketman"), will die in the attack if it isn't halted. Corporal Blake has more incentive that anybody else under Erinmore's command, and the General calculates that this will enable him to complete the mission.
"1917" is a sprawling, epic saga, and we're drawn into their plight, because we're following them every bloody step of the way. "Skyfall" director Sam Mendes and "Brazil" lenser Roger Deakins present this incredible mission as it unfolds on April 6, 1917. The film has a documentary feel to it, especially when our protagonists shoulder their way through fellow troops lining the infinite labyrinth of trenches. Each face tells a terrible story, and the officers hold out little hope for survival. Initially, during the first twenty minutes, Blake and Schofield are stunned by the uncanny silence that hangs ominously over the abandoned enemy trenches. Rats the size of racoons scavenge among the kitbags of food left behind by the Germans. Our two lads gaze in stupefaction at dozens of artillery pieces which the Huns have spiked in their urgency to retreat. At one point, the Brits enter a tunnel that appears to serve as a shortcut through this eerie no-man's land. One huge rat dragging a bag of food catches on a tripwire, and an explosion buries Schofield, and Blake digs him frantically out of the rubble. These guys were prepared to fight the Germans, but they had no idea a hungry rodent could pose such danger. Everywhere they go, no matter how desolate it appears, our protagonists discover nothing is what it seems. Death lurks everywhere, especially where they least expect it.
About forty-five minutes into "1917," after one of the two protagonists has been killed, the other realizes his life literally hangs by a thread. He catches a ride in a truck with other British soldiers, but they are heading in the wrong direction, so he must leave them where a collapsed bridge marks their point of departure. No sooner has he parted company with them than a German sniper starts blasting away at him. Scenes like this spawn white-knuckled tension, and both combatants never really see each other until our hero silences the sniper. When our protagonists embarked on their mission, they were loaded down like pack mules with ordinance and rations. By the time the surviving Brit spots the men he is supposed to save, he has only his uniform to prove he is British. Incredibly, he learns to his chagrin a glory hound of an officer may ignore his message that he has literally died for to deliver. Earlier, when he lost most of what he was lugging along with him, our lone soldier dived into a river to elude enemy fire. Swept downstream, he winds up caught up in a logjam of rotting, bloated corpses that prevent further progress. A night in a bombed-out village has a hallucinatory quality as flares burst repeatedly above the buildings, and their skeletal remains ripple with spooky shadows. By the time our hero attains his objective, you'll feel as traumatized by this spectacle as he is
I just feel as though no matter how much I say this movie was brilliant, real, 10/10 blah blah, whatever description I come up with doesn't even come close or do this movie any justice. I have to give credit though to the cinematography of this film. They've made it appear to be shot in 1 take from start to finish which makes it feel very raw and real. Absolute must see! Quite possibly the best war film of all time.
The cinematography alone is the reason to watch this. But the acting! The 2 main boys are amazing. I was amazed. I recommend this. And that's coming from someone that doesnt really care for war movies
This story is based on a true story, and when you know that going into the movie like I did, every part seems grimmer than it would have otherwise. Stories follow guidelines, but real events don't and this movie shows exactly that. There are moments that are horrifying, where you feel the fear these people must have had. It shows that one moment everything can be going well, and next you might be dead.When watching this movie, there wasn't a moment where you felt like you could relax, so dont splurge on lots of snacks, you wont eat it.All in all, this is a movie that will go into my top movies for sure.
A masterpiece. Sam Mendes's finest film since American Beauty, and an unexpected achievement. Brilliant performances by the two otherwise unknown lead actors and tasteful casting choices on the smaller cameo type of roles. Astonishing effects and visual accomplishment. If this wins any Oscars, it deserves them all.Everyone is already saying it, but the most groundbreaking and impressive part is how the entire film appears to be one non-stop shot. Though the director admittedly used editing tricks to achieve this, it makes no difference as the viewing experience is greatly enhanced by this filmmaking choice. The entire film really does feel like a gripping rollercoaster with only very brief periods of coasting, or rest. It's an electric film-viewing experience that stands on it's own in the entire history of film, and it's one that everyone should take.
1917: A different kind of war movie: Up close and personal. Opening shot: a bucolic field of wild flowers, a lovely, calm day, blue cloudless sky, quite, serine, slowly pulls back to reveal a bivouac of British troops, sleeping, smoking, eating, refreshing, resting, waiting. It's WWI. The phone lines have been cut and two British soldiers are called to the Commanding General's bunker and are given the mission to deliver a message to the commander of another regiment a few miles away, that they must call off a planned attack scheduled for dawn the following morning because the German army has set a trap that will ensure the massacre of 1600 men, one of whom is the brother of one of the soldiers. We go along with them through enemy territory, through the mud and over the bodies of the dead, determined to complete their harrowing mission. The entire film looks like it was shot in real time in one continuous take with a hand-held steady cam. The cuts are nearly imperceptible. Birdman employed this technique wonderfully, but this endeavor far surpasses that in artistry, complexity, scope and length. This is a technical achievement without comparison. But technical achievement means nothing if there is no compelling story and investment in the characters and 1917 delivers. We are drawn in to the action so closely that we almost duck when bullets start flying. We care deeply about these two young men. It's edge-of-your-seat tension. The score by Thomas Newman enhances every moment and is profoundly moving. We're aware of it, but it doesn't call attention to itself as our pulses race along with the action. The production design is brilliant. Roger Deakins is probably the greatest cinematographer of all time. He was also the A camera operator and I can only imagine how he and director Sam Mendes managed to pull this off. I read they were in rehearsal for six months planning every shot. Score: 10. GO! Well deserving of every Oscar nomination it's gotten. 1/22/20
Hands down the best war film I have ever seen. Left the cinema with tears in my eyes. Unbelievable cinematography. One of the best movies I have ever seen. A must watch.
This is an incredible film.. beautifully shot with amazing lighting,hauntingly beautiful score & great acting..please see this as it's a monumental experience..10/10
I am not a fan of war movies, but this one was exceptional.That was due completely to the camerawork. With a bunch of cutaways it would have been just another war movie.The way the camera followed these men throughout the whole movie was simply amazing and added to the emotion of this movie.Here's hoping this guy gets the Oscar for director. All the rest were typical directorial fare. This one hit it out of the park.
I am stunned at how incredible this movie was. The cinematography was just beautiful and so clearly created to fit only one cut scene. I was on the edge of my seat through the whole film. It seems to tick every box needed for a great film. The acting is good; the music is good; the story and development is good; the script is good and the filming was amazing. It was honestly the best film I've ever watched, thoroughly enjoyed it and I'm even more happy that this incredible man will get the recognition he deserves for his brave act
This _will win_ the best film and the best director Oscars. It is amongst the best war films of all time and would rank near the very top, in terms of its relentless intensity and the realistic depiction.This is the director,Sam Mendes's triumph. There are several sequences of such brilliance that they can barely be described in words. They have to be seen for their power to be felt.The editing, which makes it feel as if you are watching a single shot from the first frame of the film to the last, is truly breathtaking.The background score and the acting enhance the viewing experience.For me, there is no other film amongst those nominated which is any where close to this masterpiece.Enough said. Watch it, please.
Beautifully shot, actors were amazing, incredible use of sound and score. This movie draws you in as if you are apart of the story, it may just be the start of 2020 but this movie is probably the best movie of the year.
Simply magnificent. There is no other description for it. From the acting, to the cinematography, to the sound, this film is a masterpiece. People are comparing it to Saving Private Ryan, but trust me, this film stands all on its own. Watch it in IMAX and be blown away.
The expectations for "1917" were huge - and not let down. This was my 7th Sam Mendes movie & the 4th 10/10, earned truthfully. Teaming up with the master of craft Roger Deakins and successfully casting a stellar lead - George MacKay, Mendes has orchestrated an exhilarating journey through the horrors of war.Amazing filmmaking mastery, every element of it at play in "1917", makes it one of the (if not 'the') best war epics of the 21st century, taking its rightful place besides the great "Saving Private Ryan" in my book. It's not a movie with an extensive plot, but rather a tightly packed depiction of the fundamentals of war. As we're following - quite literally - our main protagonist William Schofield, he takes us through all the dirt, mud, blood, sweat and bullets, while also never forgetting the meaning of friendship, companionship and all that's beautiful inside a man. George MacKay truly shines in a portrayal that feels intimate to the viewer. While unmistakably being the very central character, the rest of the cast plays their parts excellently as well. One can't begin to compliment enough the aesthetical pleasures of "1917", it's masqureeding as a one-shot movie, very impressively so, and shows off an effortful down-to-the-last-detail production design. Really, it must be the best looking, most jaw-dropping war movie since the 1998's "Saving Private Ryan". Original score is no less impressive & I'm willing to bet the lot of us were happily surprised (and soon emotional) when hearing the "Poor Wayfaring Stranger" far away in the woods.Believe all the people who recommend experiencing "1917" on the biggest screen You can find - they are absolutely right. Sam Mendes's latest is an impressive feat, a breathtaking cinematic expierence, a war film with as much horror as heart. My rating: 10/10.
Incredible movie,one of the best of the decade!!! must see and enjoy
Nothing else needs to be said - this is a perfect movie.Watch it and thank me later.
1917 has some of the best cinematography seen on film, bar none. This film is directed by Skyfall-director, Sam Mendes, but the real star is Roger Deakins, the man behind the camera. The entire presentation of the film is so unique and so hypnotizing to watch. This movie takes the Birdman approach and tries to make the entire film look like it was filmed all in one take. The fact that they took this approach with a war film of all things is commendable, and it paid off quite spectacularly. So many moments in the film left me speechless and left me marveled at the filmmaking.The acting, soundtrack and mood of the film were also excellent. Even though this is a war movie, there are lots of quiet moments in the film, and the stellar set design and soundtrack take center stage. These moments add lots of tension and atmosphere, which better lets the viewer put themselves in the world.My only complaint with the film is that the characters feel somewhat underdeveloped. They are very likeable, and I enjoyed seeing their journey and following them, but they do not feel very three-dimensional. This was fine for me because a movie like 1917 is more about the experience of feeling like you're in a war, and it accomplished that, but a little more character moments could have helped.Overall, this was a very excellent and unique experience that I feel will be remembered for years to come as a true technical marvel. It is definitely worth a watch.
1917 is an Amazing Film. It Deserves Its Title for Best Picture.
If I had a give a quick summary, this film is breathtaking.It sounds cliche, but it is one of the few war films which made me feel like I was there, like I was in the same situation as the soldiers - helpless, with a fear that an attack could come at any time. It doesn't focus on the typical action scenes you often find in war films which present the situation as an appealing and exciting one, but shows the monotony of trench warfare and portrays the emotions these young men were feeling.One of the biggest assets to the film is the way it is shot, the single- shot camera work truly adds to this effect spoken about above. This combined with the fantastic acting and the details of the environment create, what I believe, is one of the best representations of war on the big screen. Go and see this film.
I have a lot of hesitation about films that try the "one long take" thing. Often it comes across as a gimmick that doesn't do anything for the story. And they usually suffer from poor pacing as the characters have to spend half their time just walking from place to place. But this film really pulls it off well. It's briskly paced, and very exciting. The central performances are all really solid. And the production design and cinematography are outstanding. It a gorgeous movie to look at, and well worth experiencing on a big screen.
I would give this movie a solid 6 for the cinematography and 1 for the story. It's very very boring. Everyone in the cinema was yawning every 10 min. If I want with friends I would have left 10min in the movie.Nothing really happens in the movie; some dude just walks from point A to point B to deliver a message which he fails to do it on time anyway.
The film has no Good dialogue or best actors , but the film is a miracle of a cinematographic film. You do not see a movie. You live the experience of the movie. The soundtrack is great.
Suffering through the agony of the seemingly-impossible mission, albeit spectacular cinematography, at the end it seems that the whole thing could have been avoided by using an aeroplane to drop the critical order at the front lines.
For your information, Sam Mendes' directed masterpiece is based on a story told from his grandfather who served in the WW1 and was assigned the similar task depicted in this film. I sensed the honesty in the storyline. For example, the extent of the German military intelligence was not understated. The one continuous shot definitely made the biggest contribution; Mendes and his team did a masterful job minimizing cuts or transitions while seamlessly shooting the battlefield scenes. I was extremely mesmerized by Roger Deakins' vivid cinematography that I think he deserves a second Oscar. Thomas Newman's score was marvelous, which lifted and sank my heart in scene by scene. The production designers accurately recreated the war zones and trenches where soldiers endured both the terror and desolation of war.Forbes reviews 1917 as "The Best Picture of the Year," and I completely agree with that assertion. This deserves to join the list of films that will be highly regarded and recognized during this awards cycle, such as Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, The Irishman, Parasite, and Marriage Story.
This movie was just great! I also like the consistency as well it felt as if the movie had no cuts what so ever. This is probably my favorite movie now. One thing that made this movie outstanding was the actors that were displayed in this movie.
It's true what they say about sequels or remakes. They're never as good as the original. It was like watching a Disney animated feature made in to a live action film in reverse. Although, I must say that the preview trailer of the mixed live action/animated Call of the Wild with the CGI versions of Harrison Ford and Buck looked even worse. Although, the makers of 1917 could pull off a Godfather II with the sequel 1918. However, I'm sure 1919 would be as satisfying as The Godfather III. What's that saying about history repeating itself? Hmmmm. I can't recall. I've actually enjoyed those single shot videos on YouTube of people eating various types of food into a microphone for two hours more than 1917. I would have loved to have been a fly on the wall during that meeting when they debated the title of the film. At least the sets were pretty!
Well filmed and acted and the techies certainly did a good job. However there were far too many coincidences that led to our hero's survival that were to far fetched for me. He must've made a stop at the barbers as he was very well shaved. Whilst some of the horrors of WW1 were portrayed the soldiers were far too clean. The grass was too long for that time of year. His healed very quickly. They could've dropped a message by plane. Their ears would've been shattered in the underground explosion etc etc. They made a point of giving them grenades but they were not used, especially against the sniper. And just how did the sniper get his shots to go around corners. Etc etc A good effort of a film let down badly by many flaws.
A compelling story and a wonderful, tour de force of Sam Mendes. Give them the awards they deserve because the movie already has it's place in cinema history.
Pure brilliance, I can see why It had to be filmed in one shot. I felt like I was there with them for entire movie, so good. Shed a tear at some moments I usually wouldn't in other movies. Amazing score perfectly fit for every second. Sam Mendes nailed it, again. Amazing experience.
The cast, the crew, the direction. The portrayal of war, and through a single shot view, is cripplingly heartbreaking and beautiful. I have never seen a film like this and I feel it is unlikely to be as amazed by an actor's performance ever again. Everything is tied together by the close of the one shot and it is beautiful.
I am 74 years old and 1917 is one of the best films I have ever seen.
May I suggest that you see it at an IMAX cinema. it will take you back
to the trenches of World War 1 in 1917. In particular the cinematography
is the best I have ever seen. And that includes the first half an hour of
"Saving Private Ryan." So we have similarity to the best parts of the
latter film and the best bits of " War Horse" But for compelling viewing
this has even more than both of these films.
Brilliantly shot and acted. Brought the horrors of WW1 and trench warfare better than any other film of that period I've seen. Also a beautiful score that complemented the story. I don't get why others are saying the plot was weak and they didn't buy into the story? Too many Hollywood WW2 blockbusters in their diet I think. War is horrible, men face terrible things and all for nothing. This film shows the futility of war and the incredible sacrifices soldiers endured. I think some viewers expected the kind of story where in the end it won the war. That not the point surely? you go through hell, suffer life changing experiences, but it hardly dents the war narrative, the pain and suffering continues. The one shot camera work makes you feel are going through the it yourself, which for me made the film very immersive.
War is hell and men die for nothing.
Brilliant film, one I will revisit many times.
It was ... stunning. First, the claustrophobic recreation of the trenches and the horror of the battlefield were so realistic, I SWEAR I could smell the death. (I realized early on that seeing it at a theatre that served food wasn't the wisest idea!) The most striking feature was the nearly 2 hour continuous, seamless take, which meant my heart was pounding and my throat was tight from 5 minutes in when they received their assignment. Added to that was the subtle scoring between the moments of the "hottest" action which was frequently just one continuous chord that just felt like the tension was getting more and more taut, to the point of strangulation. Aside from four recognizable faces in VERY brief cameos, the use of unknowns was also effective, kind of reflective of the anonymity of the common soldier. I can't recommend it highly enough!!!
1917 make u feel like its was done in one shot like birdman movie. Best performance by the two lead actors. A Roller-coaster ride of mix emotions showing u the sad, awful and suffering the war had causes that make us more treasure the peace we had now. Some youtuber should watch this movie before commenting about starting a war on other countries in social media when they not happy about being insult by others. Peace take years to build but its only take days to break and hard to restore as now peace is numb to us and we starting to blame each other and forget to give love that needed.
The acting was terrible. I watch many many movies and can not understand how IMBD GAVE IT SUCH A HIGH RATING?
I know nothing at all about the true nature of war, but I know a lot about making films and TV as I've done it for 50 years. This film is an absolutely phenomenal undertaking. More than once I had to stop the dvd and backtrack, and more than once I failed to see how the shot was achieved. Its only competition will be from The Irishman, and maybe Once Upon... Hollywood, both of which I also loved in their own ways. 1917 is such an exquisite experiment that one forgets about everything else. But it's not just technique at work here; the performances are terrific, as is the writing. They clearly knew those has to be on par with the exploratory nature of the thing, and they were. Kudos to Sam et al.
I like 1917 well enough, I just think people are kind of overselling it just on the basis that the movie is one continuous uncut shot. I see how it is impressive and how it's a choice that makes sense, I just also think it's not enough to make it a masterpiece. A good movie, definitely. With gorgeous cinematography and efficient camerawork. With an enticing premise and some captivating action sequences. It just also felt kind of empty. Almost too smooth for a war movie. Something I also felt while watching Dunkerque.I'm definitely not hating though! I just wanted to add some nuance to my review. I think this movie had some heart. It just wasn't quite a masterpiece for me, just a good movie.
I like war type movie.. This movie is having very awesome story... Very much realistic.. Background sound is very nice... Camera position is very good... Nice plot.. All have done very good acting...
After i saw this movie i was overwhelmed by knowledge, pain and beauty. Im studying WW1 for personal gain, and im so glad this movie stumbled into my life. It gave me magnificent cinematography, gripping storyline and aweing talent from every single actor/actress (taking to you French lady). Cant wait to rewatch
Usually I find that user ratings on IMDB of movies are a bit too high. In the case if user ratings for this film, currently at 8.5, the overall rating is 1.5 points too low! This is simply a cinematic masterpiece, period. No movie in history has ever been filmed as if in one long, uncut scene! Genius and ground-breaking film making. Breathtaking cinematography. Grit and beauty and reality of war, through the lens of the Director's personal knowledge passed from his own grandfather. Tear-jerking, heart-wrenching, pulsating tension, individuals persevering through an ever changing and huge landscape of war and the unknown - this is an epic brilliantly made for the big screen experience - bold yet nuanced. There was no better film released in 2019, and the fact that overall IMDB rating is anything less than 10 can only speak on behalf of those persons rating this film who have not closely followed and watched films from the silents to today, evaluating story first and foremost, then in close conjunction with directing, acting, cinematography, sets and sound. This movie is exquisitely detailed in every aspect of story-telling and film making. Thank you, Sam Mendes!
Long war time not stop!! And very hard see! Very never forget that
I'm a woman and I really don't like war movies. But my husband wanted to see this. So, I figured, the moment it got too violent or gory, I was out of here. Yet, from the moment this movie started, with the way the camera captured the two young soldiers walking through war trenches, something I had never really known about or observed before, and the amazing construction of these war-time structures, I was hooked. I could literally not stop watching this movie, even when there were some gory, bloody scenes.The ending was touching, emotional, and really completed and finalized this awesome movie.Sam Mendes - brilliant producer. Pulls you in until you feel at one with the movie, just the way it should be!
A must see because of the history of WW2. A terrible war with many casualties.
The film is gripping from start to finish; the cinematography makes you feel like you're there with the soldiers. The lead actor is brilliant and is worthy of awards. One of the best films I've seen for a while.
This movie is really a masterclass in a cinema going experience, the "one shot" idea for creating this film, calls for a linear plot logically, yet the plot of this movie makes perfect sense as such because it's the military and a classic use of good vs. evil. The movie is quite simply and honestly an emotional and psychological journey as though the viewer was really there! Astonishing
Everything was just incredible. Must watch.
Production: 10
Acting:10
Visuals: 10
When you're watching this movie you really feel like it is the year of 1917. Acting is fantastic and the cinematography is oscar worthy for sure!
What a absolute beautiful take on a movie. Had me thrilled and excited through every minute! The way Sam Mendes has made this movie is pure genius, the actors being truthfully to their roles and so many amazing shots! This is an experience everybody should witness, i was never bored and never wanted to leave the cinema. This movie is such a joy to watch and really takes you on a journey you'll never forget.Gonna remember this for the rest of my life as a masterpiece of beautiful cinematography! I'm thankful to Mendes for creating this movie and let it tell a important story in It's own way. Absolute beauty!
I found 1917 a lot more emotive than Dunkirk and yet the films are remarkably similar. This is is compliment of the highest order.This is a thinkers film.
Amazing structure, every scene is special and all dialogues are justified.
Beside the good British and evil German soldier adversity, the movie is incredible.
It deserved a better ending. All the rest was very entertaining.
*1917*
I, actually, am stunned after watching this film. It's hard to decide where to start. I didn't think any film would come close to Joker this year, but 1917 has arrived right next to the DC masterpiece. Huge amount of credits go to cinematography. It's an incredible talent because once the movie starts, you would realize that the director has not shouted CUT! and the cameras are rolling and the movie is moving ahead without any cuts! The actors' expressions, their makeup, the whole war scenario art composition, the story with a fabulous direction serves us a day in life of soldiers making us awe, worry, laugh, cry, and appreciate such a creation.My rating 9.2 
Loved this movie but not sure of the constantly moving camera. The story line is not quite what we expected...not going to spoil it for others but it is surprisingly a great story.
Great great great movie imho. The plot is not particularly original, since it resembles a bit the one of another famous war movie, but the rythm, the direction and images make of 1917 two hours of great cinema.
Intense, emotional, and seat-gripping. Beautifully done!
There is a lot to admire about 1917: The amount of detail put into all environemnts, the amount extras who elevate the atmosphere with their human touch, the way a flare can be seen falling after it was fired away from camera and off-screen, and the way Schofield bumps into charging soliders in his rush to prevent the attack. While not "gritty" the film is certainly grounded, which is a must for all good war films.However, 1917 is not without fault. Despite having an intriguing opening and tense finale, the second act of the film goes on to drag a little. For instance the scene where Schofield encounters a french woman and her baby is, while touching, ultimately meaningless as it does nothing but act as filler. The action in this segment of the film feels quite cartoonish too, with Schofield dodging more bullets than James Bond during Pierce Bresnan's reign. The poor aim of the Germans makes for a tenseless second-act, because Scofield's plot armour is impenetrable.So if you're going in looking for a war film with plenty of good action and decent pacing then you might be disapointed. But this film makes up for many of it's flaws through good dialogue writing, which really immerses the audience in this brilliantly realised world, and the performsnces of just about every actor involved.Overall I found more to enjoy about this movie than to critisise, so I would recommend you watch it. It's moving, well shot, written and acted and so certainly stands worthy of some of its oscar nominations.
Photography is the single best aspect of 1917. Acting - Dean-Charles Chapman and George Mackay are still cutting their teeth as actors - is good enough. Direction is first class, especially during the first two thirds.Unfortunately, from the moment Scho (Mackay) is shot by a wounded German soldier, I found it tough to believe that a fully-fledged British Army lance corposal in WWI would just abandon his weapon and try to elude bullets, not just once but at least twice - just as I found incredible that so many German soldiers were such poor shots as to keep missing him when they had him cornered.1917 is a piece of memorabilia to Director Sam Mendes, as his grandfather Alfred was the source of the story he tells us, but that last third tries to elevate the hero and film to virtually supermannish heights, as Mackay runs through his army's attacking lines to deliver the crucial message. As it turns out, he is late, the first wave has already gone on to the frontline.Cumberbatch has a small but, as ever, intensely repellent part, as Col. Mackenzie, who initially refuses to read his general's orders -- another flaw in the movie's credibility -- and who apparently loves to wage war, regardless of costs in terms of men.I think 1917 is a good movie, and it pays homage to two great WWI movies: ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT (US 1930) and LA GRANDE ILLUSION (France 1935), but it fails to reach the heights provided by the simplicity and sincerity of those two films.
In a film landscape where Marvel movies are understood by many as masterpieces, and true art films are so connivingly dissected that nothing is above some reproach, a film such as 1917 makes perfect sense. I have read film critics copiously bandy about the descriptor "immersive" when attempting to justify effusive praise for this film the same way "pathos" is and has been inevitably invoked to describe the films of Charlie Chaplin. I suppose "immersive" does seem like a good fit in a film with a singular linear narrative; on the other hand, with such simple storytelling at play, were 1917 not "immersive," it would be an utter failure.Amidst the height of the First World War, two British soldiers, lance-corporals Blake (Dean Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George McKay), are sent on a dangerous mission to deliver a message to another regiment that will stop a battle and save the lives of 1,600 men, one of whom is Blake's brother. As they battle the clock, their perilous trek through filthy rat-infested trenches and across enemy territory littered with booby traps is filled with high drama rendered ultra-realistically and seemingly captured in real time. Along the way, others that enter and exit the story in small but memorable cameos give the narrative a context and depth that profiles more than mere characters, but the time in which they lived and the war they volunteered to fight and even die for.If many of these elements seem somehow familiar, that is because they are. Though undeniably "immersive", 1917 is more than anything else derivative. Make no mistake, this is an exceptional movie, although there is no way it could ever be described as exceptionally original. The heavily praised continuous take presentation has a deep and long precedent, originating with Alfred Hitchcock's 1948 film Rope, and most successfully executed with Birdman in 2014. The plot, though based upon true stories told to writer/director Mendes by his WWI veteran grandfather, bears more than passing resemblance to story elements from Saving Private Ryan. Many other film techniques and depictions may only be generously described as homages to Paths of Glory, Full Metal Jacket, and Apocalypse Now.So does this lack of originality make 1917 a bad film? By no means. The acting is superb and effortless, the music stirring, the cinematography and editing nothing less than brilliant. Does this set a new high watermark for technical film quality? You bet. Writer/Director Sam Mendes has never made a bad film, and here he just may have assembled a perfect one, constructed of the best parts of many other successful films before it.I suppose in a film culture saturated with countless sequels, prequels, reboots, and reimaginings, this is the new normal. In that context, for better or worse, 1917 is the state of the art.
Films ok it's worthy of a 7-10 lots of cameos from good actors
That film is vor me just a wish come true. The camera moves are so nice and well done. The sound is so realistic and great... It is just a very good movie...
I was lucky to attend a preview screening of this for almost nothing. War movies are never my first choice. They either seem to be glorified body counts using high tech killing machines or preachy "isn't war just terrible and we should all be ashamed" movies. This one is in the latter camp. This is a saving private Ryan style narrative minus the pyrotechnics of the opening scene. Two soldiers are selected to pass a message to a commander to halt and advance into a planned trap. The movie itself is basically about their journey and the overall emotion it conveys is one of tension. The problem I had with the movie is that the soldiers are basically inept. Every problem that they face is basically self inflicted and the result of bad decision making. Which makes it a little hard to be sympathetic. This is really a story about dumb luck and who does or doesn't have it.
It's well shot however it has less visual impact than the recent Peter Jackson effort which used real moving film. Which brings me to my next point. The tone of 1917 is very sombre while as the Peter Jackson documentary showed that wasn't always the case. For some reason its forbidden to show anyone smiling over anything in world war 1. This will earn high praise from the anti war middle-class that's lovely cinematography crowd. But many will be disappointed when the movie doesn't match the initial high scores of professional critics. Midway was a much more entertaining and emotionally engaging war movie.
Wow, what a letdown! The best picture nomination is misplaced on 1917. The movie lacked an interesting plot, meaningful action, any kind of character development, and overall watchability. There are long stretches of complete boredom while watching the movie. Aside from some good camera work while walking through trenches, it was truly a mediocre movie.
In WW1, 2 soldiers are sent to warn a Colonel across enemy lines not to advance as it's a trap.Apparently filmed in one continuous shot - the camera certainly never leaves the leads' sides - this is unquestionably a towering technical achievement but this close up of our heroes throughout the 2 hours is the problem, in that you yearn to look elsewhere. In addition, the story can only progress through the characters and situations they come across, hence the effect, however touching, is that of chapters in a video game. So much to admire rather than like here, it sets an interesting new approach to story telling, I'm just not convinced that the talent on display or the story stand a chance against all the technical cleverness and trickery.
I take no pleasure in stating 1917 is a huge wasted opportunity. The selling point for Sam Mendes' (director of American Beauty & Skyfall) new film is that it's a war film shot to look like one continuous take. Bold move for a genre of cinema that requires loads of characters, huge action set pieces and usually many locations. So how can this be pulled off effectively? Well , in this case not very well it seems.The trouble with 1917 is it all feels too clean and staged. I understand that they were trying to go for one continuous visceral experience with two troopers tasked with crossing enemy territory to send a message of stopping an assault from British forces entering a German enemy trap (A race against time literally) but it never felt tense when everything felt set-up. And this is all due to the premise of the film. Why sacrifice tension and dread of troopers in the trenches for some silly gimmick that is going to limit authenticity? Single take shots are the cool kid on the block for sure. A film that carries one in their film is immediately looked upon favourly because yes, they can be quite impressive. See films like Children of Men, Rope, Season one of True Detective, Boogie Nights or Atonement for such good examples. However, you have to know where to use it. It can be a miraculous style of getting across tension or nearing dread or a character's journey in a moment. However, it has limitations which makes making a film purely running on this shot troublesome. So many times did they have resort to cheap blackouts or tricks to continue the single take over a couple of days in a 2 hour film. Kind of hard to produce entertainment when you are literally trying to produce the slowness of time and get to different locations and have different looks in your scene (the burning church scene was clearly done to turn the audience away from the same cloudy skies and muddy fields).I can say with great confidence that only two moments in this film benefited from the single take
approach (The start of the town scene with the sniper and the intense run to find the Colonel in the trenches). For that, I tip my hat to Roger Deakins and everyone involved in those scenes. Everything else however, felt so staged and empty. Almost like looking at a war memorial set piece at a museum. Case in point, there is a scene early on where the troops sent on the mission are going through their trenches to exit unto enemy territory where there's obviously a take going around showing the fear and falling morale of the battalion. A moment should invoke this incoming dread and fear of death. Instead, it all looks glossy and the camera never really smartly focuses on any of the troopers faces. It just sort of hovers overhead, enough to be in the trenches but far away fron the troops to cut off real intimacy Imagine doing a shot like in the classic WW1 movie Paths of Glory where the camera goes slowly down the trenches as all the soldiers look on and you just hear the sound of explosions as the music. Which is another thing 1917 buggers up on.Scenes can work without music. They don't continuously have to spell out incoming dread. It just seemed like a really lazy way of saying oh jeez this scene is intense. Oh look at me. It's all in one take and oh the fear in these soldiers and of time running out is palpable. Be more adventurous with your music choices and use. So many sequences could've carried across dread more if all we heard was soldiers trudging feet in the mud or explosions going off. Just another amateur move.If you can tell, I found 1917 to be a massive disappointment. Not that's it's intentions were not bold or interesting, but it just didn't work. If you are selling your film on a specific style, then use it well. Use it so it actually provides tension and dread. It was not here. Look, it's a war that needs to be remembered and my hate for this film does not discount the hard work and sacrifice these men had on the battlefield. They are heroes and not the worst film will take that away. Its just a shame that such a film couldn't have been done better with just a normal, more focussed approach instead of falling for a stylistic trick.
The movie is good, i will put a little more of action but its ok
Immersion and tension in incredible shooting. But the drama is lacking.
Beautiful cinematography by Roger Deakins. The scene at night in the ruins that are lit by flares and fire is fantastic. Two simple shots stand out to me; the first being in the beginning when the two protagonists walk around a body of water and the camera parts from them, goes to the waters surface and follows them from the side as they cross. The second being when Schofield sits to listen to the solider sing to his compatriots. The camera weaves in between the crowd of listeners to come back on Schofield. Very good costumes. Great set design and dressing. The film is filled with soldiers dirtied in the trenches; smoking, drinking, sleeping and tending to wounds. Locations are filled with ruins, craters, barred wire, old posters, fires, rubble and dead bodies. Everything in the foreground and background does a great job to feel like an authentic WW1 movie. The one shot element does a great job helping convey passage of time as well as really make the movie feel like one continuous journey. All the events on the way to the destination are great and exciting to watch. The death of Blake served as a great way to create stakes very shortly into the movie's runtime as well a create a good character moment between Schofield and Blake's brother. The last 25 minutes or so are great. The quick tempo ticking score gives a sense of urgency.There are a few elements that really hinder 1917. The first being the dialogue. A lot of the time it's very cheese ball, conversations between the two protagonists seem off. The second is the actual story. There's really nothing to the story, just a simple get from point A to point B with things that happen in the middle. Next is the one take element. Scenes where Schofield is running from Germans firing at him seem not as tense as they should be. Well over a dozen shots are missed back to back to back and you see every single one because its one take. Some quick cuts during those scenes would have created a more tense feeling. Finally the movie seemed more like a performance, like a play.Pretty good war movie that is really elevated by its cinematography and attention to detail on set, with a couple great moments. If you like war movies this is one to watch.
7.5/10
Watching this film in theaters is an experience and quite the experience. This film is made to look like it was shot in one-take and is used at its most effectively and brings you into the film even more creating one of the most intense films you'll see this year. Of course you can't talk about this film without talking about the cinematography by Roger Deakins, it's just gorgeous and makes the film even better! Also not much people have been talking about the leading performance which basically leads the film. Anyway if you haven't seen this already do yourself a favor and go see it!
The real best picture of the year. Great - sets, costumes, cinematography, acting, tension, drama, realism ....
Perhaps the best WWI film ever made.
Cheers to Director Sam Mendes, cast and crew.
People call this film "The Birdman of WWI" and to be fair that is a justified assessment. This entire film is filmed like it is one camera shot and it is AWESOME! think one of the most impressive thing apart from the one looking shot is the AMAZING CINEMATOGRAPHY. This shouldn't be no surprising since it is the legend himself Roger Deakins (Blade Runner 2049 Cinematographer). Every scene feels like a painting and it is absolutely stunning. There is a scene at night where the lighting was done in such a creative way that heighten the tension of the scene. On that note there must also be praise for the score by Thomas Newman who somehow manages to make a score that somehow manages toe elevate every scene and help tell the story. There is also some amazing sound design that manages to make the War actually scary with moments that give horror movie jump scares a run for its money. Additionally, the props and set design should also get praise for creating such large,realistic but elaborate sets to accommodate for a more natural one shot scene. Everything in this film just feels like a technical achievement. We haven't even touched on the acting or story yet but just for the way this was filmed is already engaging enough. Nevertheless, the two main actors George MacKay as Lance Corporal William "Will" Schofield and Dean-Charles Chapma as Lance Corporal Thomas "Tom" Blake manages to do a phenomenal job in showing the horror of war and giving authentic,believable characters. The story, while relatively simple, is engaging enough to keep you invested in the objective of the main characters. They must send a message to allies stop them running into a trap. It's simple but works well for the aim of one shot as now it makes the audience a part of the journey.There isn't much negative to this movie but I guess if I have to be quite nitpicky it is the fact that halfway through the movie there is a obvious cut. So this movie is actually really a two shot film. The cut was necessary to make the situation more desperate and allow for a unique change in scenery even though it was a bit of a jarring cut. Another sort of nitpick is that we don't really get much info on the main characters. We get their names and we know what their mission is but their backstory is just given in tidbits. It goes in a Dunkirk route in which we care about these characters because of the situation they are in rather than the fact that we are invested in the characters. It can be argued that the tidbits more than gives you enough info about the characters but it's really up to the audience in the end. Personally, I don't find it too much of a fault but can see how others could consider it so.Honestly my negatives are just nitpicks. This movie is amazing and it is definitely worth watching right now.
1917 is a great movie in which you feel involved from the beginning to the end. Great actors work as well. A movie which you can see a number of times.
This movie is such a gem. It has pulled me in from the start. The one shot technique really made this movie hit home. A lot of shows and movies lack that special feeling nowadays. I personally love war movies. I loved Band of Brothers for example, which didn't use this one shot technique, obviously, yet pulls the viewer right in there. That moment, that brutality of war, the sorrow between men fighting for something bigger than themselves. That feeling is hard to capture on a screen in ways other than the horrors of war. 1917 did this.This movie can easily be called one of the best movies of this age. Not for people who like cookie cutter movies tough, you have to love the art of film to love this.
The best part, stuck to the plan; you got a message which you need to deliver and there's no other path chosen; I liked it. After a long time viewed a gripping ongoing war movie where there is no war shown upfront but its after affects and from the back end. The one before which impressed was Dunkirk but believe me, this one surpassed. What also energised me was the story building with an equal build of eagerness in my heart to wait and watch how the duty is fulfilled at the end.A few scenes which gave goosebumps were the mine explode, Corporal falling in river and out of no where Germans attacking their nemesis. There was no extra gore, unwanted violence and over stretched actions and yet it had all war content. However, said that, when you got so many expectations built and a perfect story line in place, you tend to find what missed or went offtrack and to me, it was the discussion with stranger lady and the child which asked a point to be deducted.Anyways, go and watch if not already, you won't regret.
It's a female war movie experience, sam Mendez. Reality is at the forefront and a very successful camera angle ..full metal jacket, thin red line, er Ryan, has been a very high quality film with a distinct value as well as masterpieces.
Everything about this movie is top notch. The acting, story line, visual effects, and cinematography all come together to create a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat!
No long drawn out review here
This movie is a masterpiece in movie making!!! Watch and agree!!
The movie has virtually no pauses for you to breathe! It's visceral, fast, exciting!
Spectacular the time that was spent in the rehearsals of the whole team and the entire cast involved, the result was great and it really seems like it was shot in one shot.
The most engrossing war movie I've ever seen. The whole time I was mesmerized wondering how the camera was rolling through the scene. Beautifully done
Normally I wasn't going to watch 1917 but with all the fuss with the BAFTA's and the Oscar's winning for it's cinematography I had to see it.What a movie, story is of course sad but top notch acting and as said, the cinematograhy is stunning, one shot, almost unbelievable. Only one moment that I could think of editing is the black-out moment. But even then it's almost unbelievable to see.A must see for lovers of special movies but also for those who love war movies. I agree, a must see.
1917 is 100 times better than Dunkirk.
The failing scene was really heartwarming.
Hats off to Sam Mendes
Abasolutely spell-binding - the script, the cinematography, the acting.So good that more words fail me.
Simply wow from the word go. Sound effects, cinematography, Acting, Direction, Emotions everything is just awesome. Loved it and will forever remain one of the best movies in my list. Felt like, i am in 1917 and not in 2020. Very engaging master piece.
There has been set a lot about the cinematographic grandeur of this movie. Though nevertheless, 1917 could not really 'capture' me. Let me explain to you wihy, without going into details too much:The movie to me felt like The Lord of the Rings: An unlikely hero goes with a friend on a quest to bring something valuable into the dark lands. A lot of the praised cinematics of this movie remind me a lot of Lotr as well. The wasteland, the forest with the chanting, the firelands and also Blake dying struck me a lot like Frodo (almost) dying.Unlike Lotr there wasn't really a side story though. Going from point a to point b was kind of it. And it would not have been that hard if it were not for some highely unlikely events. Using the first World War as a scenery also felt somewhat random to me; there was hardly any context concerning the war. Germans are evil and shoot like stormtroopers, but didn't get any human charectaristics. This movie could have also been situated in the American Civil War or the Cold War near the Berlin wall; kind of everywhere where the protagonist has to beyond enemy lines without modern technology.I do wonder what happened to the hero since he stuck his open wound hand in a dead man's body which would seem like a fatal infection waiting to happen back then.
The way this movie shows the story is one of the greatest. You never get diverted from the story and get totally in it.
Extremely touching and beautiful movie by Mendes. The movie really shows some of the hidden history of millions of soldiers and what they had to carry through their lives. The movie also shows the brutality of war, broken brotherhoods and the dirty, miserable standards of living along the front lines. Excellent movie, everybody should see it!
Just for the Cinematography i can give a 10/10
Hat's off to Roger Deakins.
While 1917 is a great experience motsly due to the way it's shot and edited, the abscence of a good story really hurts it.1917 does feel like a collection of war stories told by the people involved (which it surely is) but there is no rooting message in this story, no real characterizations or relatable human emotions. Some of the stories feel disconnected from each other and feel like filler.If you disregard the single shot style of the editing, the film would feel no different than Midway, for example. Midway was a big budget spectacle with no story and little dramatic elements and this one is too. I understand the attempt to move from heroism cliches but having no emotional investment in a war film is not a good idea.Aside from a couple of Mendes' trademarks like the truck scene (reminiscent of the Semper Fi scene of Jarhead) and night fire silhouettes (reminiscent of Skyfall), there is not much to grasp to.It also has a big segment that is so tonally different and disconnected from the film it makes you wonder why did they put it in (the sniper scene and the follow-up with the baby).1917 is a technical achievement with little to no essence. While this style of immersion is inspiring, more investment into the story would've made it even better.
It shouldn't to use one shot (it isn't one shot it special cuts does majics,so it seems one shot.),this job make fake distances and sciences .
Firstly lets get something out the way, if you're expecting a war film with action on par to Saving Private Ryan, then this is the wrong film for you. It reminded me much more of Dunkirk, sporadic action but even in the slow bits still maintained a sense of tension, not know what would happen next gave it a more real feeling.
The one shot cinematography was very nicely done, combine that with an eerie score and beautiful sets, this film creates a sense of atmosphere rarely seen in movies today.
A few nice little cameos from some top British acting talent, so ye, good film, i can see why it won several Oscars.
I like how the camera follows the actors throughout the movie non-stop. And thumbs up to George Mackay who managed to carry the story flawlessly.
The movie mainly tells a story about two soldiers delivering a letter to an isolated regiment which is needed to cross through enemy's territory. The plot is simple, but the beautiful screens were unforgetable and the movie only used one shot ! It was amazing. I have some problems though,that how did George change his cloth? Did the director edit it when he passes by the tree?
Cinematography is First Class in this film. A few jumps and scares which were well acted. Some scenes a bit unbelievable but otherwise a solid watch.
1917 could have easily been another feel good war moive but becaue of its brillain cinamotograhpy and amazing acting, 1917 is truly an amazing film.
1917
War films often have a massive cast, which means you're likely meet a few actors who don't quite have the chops. This is not one of those movies, everyone adds something to each scene, even if it's only for a brief moment. The choice of using a relative unknown like George MacKay in the leading role worked a treat. He hit the ground running (figuratively and literally) and not once did he take a break. Making the whole experience feel much more believable. That is until the celebrity cameos jump out at you and shout 'Hey I'm a famous actor!". Although acting well, they often burst the bubble briefly but MacKay swoops back in to ground the audience.The whole movie is shot to make it look like it was filmed in one take. Now, this will divide audiences. For some, it will make them feel fully immersed in the world, for others it will remind them that there's a cast of thousands behind the camera. For me it was a mixture of both and I loved it.I felt as though I was on a Tolkien-like adventure, in a strange world, meeting new travellers and battling evil. Although not as long as The Lord Of The Rings, it could have done with tightening towards the back half as it tended to linger on moments just a fraction too long. These are minor flaws in an otherwise amazing film.
One to see in the cinema, not only for the experience but a least you'll know what everyone is banging on about come Oscar time.
NickWatch It Wombat
1917 is a hell of a ride and for shure the best cinematography of the year. Mendes keeps the pace over the whole film and the sound editing is also great.Esthetically 1917 reminds me a lot of a first person shooter where you always follow the protagonist, each scene seems scripted for maximum thrill. its a film ernst jnger might have enjoyed.But when you compare 1917 to films like all quite on the western front, paths of glory or full metal jacket it lacks the portrait of the enemy as a human being. the germans are most of the time absent, and when the protagonists encounter them, they are sneaky, unthankful and -deserve- to die. shure in one of the last dialogs its said that war is meaningless, but what the viewer sees is a hero that survived the stahlgewitter. so its a good movie from the crafts, but it fails when you compare it to classics of anti-war-cinema, because in the end its all spectacle, non the less.
I don't usually like war movies, but this is really good, go see it.PS - Ignore the nitpickers and really low scores (as for most movies)
Very good movie but I don't see what all the Oscar and award hype is all about. Think about the story. It doesn't make sense at all. So they knew the Germans had left the area and the 2 men could make through to the front line. Why not just send the same plane the didnthe recon and drop the same letter to the front line the soldiers were carrying?
The film has a spectacular direction, but fails with a generic script, which makes it a superficial war film, which is saved by its direction, but it doesn't make it a masterpiece
I'm not gonna say I didn't enjoy it I came out the cinema thinking I hadn't been ripped off like I have with many films recently but and here's the problem with 1917 the story is very simple the 2 soldiers have to get from A to B to deliver a message that could save hundreds of lives including one of the soldiers brother's but what happens on their journey is a bit unbelievable and convenient I'm trying not to give anything away storywise but it felt a bit to rushed to me like they spent all the money on cinematography and direction (which is outstanding) and didn't spend to much time on the actual script, there are certain parts of the film where I just thought "come on that's a bit lucky innit" and it happens a few times in the film which ruined it a bit for me but it is worth a watch just for the cinematography and direction which is definitely the best I've seen in a long time.
Filming a movie in one continuous take sounds good in theory, but as 1917 shows, doesn't work in practice. It shows that this style should be used sparingly, and in just some scenes, like the amazing waterfall scene, which looks fantastic.Overall the one take makes for a very slow journey which at times is just boring.Another problem is that once again we have the curse of written and directed by the same person. Noooo!
This means there is no one to tell the writer where they have gone wrong. And it also looked like there were no military advisors either.At times the visuals were amazing, but there were numerous script errors.Why would two soldiers who have been bombed and machine gunned race to pull a German pilot from his crashed plane? Why would the pilot (who has been badly burnt) stab his rescuer?How could a soldier with hob nail boots walk across a metal hand rail on a bridge - he would have slipped off.When fighting a sniper, if you keep popping up from the same spot you would be quickly shot - unlike the hero.When you are being shot at you hear the impact of the bullet (it doesn't explode like in this move) and at the same time the crack of the bullet, and then the sound of the gun being fired - depending on how far away the shooter is. Unlike depicted here.Please stop showing soldiers before the 80's walking around like SWAT with their rifles at the shoulder - they didn't do this! They normally carried their rifles at the port.And why didn't our hero swing and hit the German soldier with the butt of his rifle instead of grabbing him and telling him to be quiet? The butt swing was part of basic bayonet fighting drill back then.Why wasn't there continuous gunfire in the background? Especially at the end when at the aid station where there was total silence.Why were the men sprinting once over the top? They weren't running a 50 metre race, but having to walk maybe 100 metres through mud and shell holes and fight at the other end. historical footage shows the troops walking.And to finish, there was too much energy at the aid station at the end. These would have been exhausted troops. Just carrying a body on a stretcher for 50 metres is hard work enough. Yet extras are running everywhere.1917 should have been so much better. Such a shame.
Throughout the film there are some cinematically beautiful scenes, and a clear style throughout. A personal story from the director adds to the films emotion and story.However I couldn't help feeling that something was missing. The handful of inaccuracies were not a major issue for me, as opposed to some of the other more critical reviews on here.The film started to take a "Revenant" turn from approximately 30 mins in, whereby we saw the main character running from place to place avoiding death and pulling through terrible experiences but started to feel overly dramatised at times.The acting didn't come across real to me, and although there are certainly some stand-out performances, overall it did feel like watching actors rather than an original, heartfelt performance that the director intended.We did see the visuals of the horrors of World War one but overall it lacked some of the grit to add the depth and emphasis to make this truely poignant with the viewers.I wanted to love this film but something was certainly missing for me and it would not be justified to pretend otherwise!
I was looking forward to this movie for months and was somewhat disappointed. Not enough background into the characters, just endless footage of running though the trenches.
I will not have any spoilers in my reviewFirst of all, the battlefield landscape/setting was nicely done and littered with bodies, artillery shells, barb wire fences. The camera footage is cool how it only focuses and follows the two main characters continuously, only showing the other soldiers and the landscape that immediately surrounds them. It makes you feel like you are there and it is certainly an unique way of filming.However, filming like that has its consequences. The movie is really limited in what it can show. It maybe puts too much focus on these two main characters without showing the bigger picture of the war they are in, as a perspective. The movie lacks a strong beginning and ending; it jumps right into the mission and has a rather abrupt ending. The climax of the film is very short and not much of a climax at all. But the biggest bummer is the severe lack of character introduction/background/development. Very little is revealed about the personal lives of either character, which is a bit shocking considering the entire movie only focuses on these characters. I was unable to connect with them or feel any emotions toward them during the scenes that were supposed to be much sadder than they ended up being. There is no bond or great dialogue between the two, either. The movie dragged on for too long with too much of the same thing.Because of how the movie was filmed in a continuous scene following the two characters, this movie would've been so much better if we learned more about the characters and saw more of a brotherly bond so that we could connect to them more.
It was the best directing I have ever seen in years.but the story was poor and predictable.It worth a watch just for the visual feast.
The cinematography obviously is stellar, but the aspect of this film seeming like one massive take is in my opinion more of a hindrance than an improvement. It's cool and unique in the beginning, but later on in the film (especially some combat scenes) there are instances where the film would massively have benefited from cutting to a different perspective.1. It doesn't help in this case that the film starts with only two main protagonists. There are movies that pull off suspense quite well with only a few central characters (I am Legend / A Quiet Place, for instance), but this one in my opinion does not.2. Because once you realise that since this film is one massive take, the only realistic stakes can be towards the end of the movie, (since if both of the soldiers fail at their mission early on and no new soldiers join their quest, the film can't really pan towards anything, so based on this, you now know that if the camera only follows those two around, its highly likely that at least one of the pair will survive for the near-entirety of the movie. And that's a big problem in a film depicting brutal war. (And if this didn't occur to you before, well, sorry :3).3. It further doesn't help that a LOT of the scenes where something meaningful happens are already in the trailer. Carrying on from point #2., if you remember seeing a scene of a protagonist in this trailer that the movie hasn't caught up with yet, well, well well.... Good films only show trailers of their beginnings, and don't show anything from the 2nd or 3rd act. It's such an obvious and easily avoidable pitfall, and yet so many films try to stuff everything in the trailer just to make people see the film, at the expense of the film itself. Having seen the trailer beforehand since it was practically everywhere, this was very bad. The plane scene, and the running-trench scene, were particularly egregious examples of this. For me, this film was like reading a book, having already skimmed the synopsis.4.When soldiers 'just miss' targets running in a straight line (not zigzagging) 15 meters in front of them, I won't lie, the film got annoying for me, that's literally one of the easiest shots to take. Shoot in the back, fin.Positives: Acting was good to very good, soundtrack, sound editing, and set design were spot on, and the story premise was decent. I truly felt for the characters, and I hear that it's based on a true story too, which is also cool. But Saving Private Ryan had a similar premise, however that movie was executed way better.Overall, I didn't feel like I had wasted my money. But I felt like this could have been so much better. For logical thinkers, and for those who have seen truly great cinema, this will definitely be overrated for you.
Apart from the 'Will it, Won't it win Best Picture', the main talking point regarding "1917" is the fact that it was filmed in a single take, though of course it wasn't. Mendes shot the film in a number of seamless takes that give the impression the whole thing is happening in real time with only one obvious break midway through when the screen goes black to signify the passage of time from day to night; otherwise, all the events we see would seem to take place over the film's two hour running time and that's where my problem with the picture lies."1917" is an exciting, technically brilliant picture but it's also unbelievable. What happens to the characters in this film might happen to them over the course of a day or two, a week perhaps or possibly a year but what happens to George MacKay, (never really off the screen in this film), in two hours is very hard to take. Okay, perhaps I'm being picky; it's only a film after all and what we're seeing is several stories stitched together to form the events of a single day but it's still a cheat, a brilliant but unnecessary display of technical virtuosity. Watching "1917" I kept thinking, 'Do we really need to do something just because we can?' For me, "1917" would have been a much better film had it been done in the old-fashioned conventional way with the action spread over several days.So what's it about, this 'one-take masterpiece' that's neither one-take nor a masterpiece? Well, to prevent a massace of around 1600 troops two young soldiers must make their way behind enemy lines and warn a particular colonel to call off a planned assault; it's as simple as that and to make this an 'exciting' picture all sorts of superbly filmed misfortunes befall them.You might call it a director's picture since Mendes engineers everything brilliantly but it's like a massive stage production with everything designed down to the tiniest detail rather than seeming in any way 'real', (let's just call it 'the theatre of war'). It's certainly a cinematographer's film and Roger Deakins will justly deserve the Oscar he's going to win for shooting it and in the case of George MacKay you might even say it's an actor's picture. He's superb and on the strength of this alone I predict a real future for him, (otherwise too many well-known faces flit across the screen in the manner of "Oh, What a Lovely War" or "The Longest Day"). Of course, a lot of people have been blown away by it or maybe they've just been blown away by the hype. Personally, I didn't buy it.
When I first saw this movie I thought that it will be on the level of Hawksaw Ridge, Platoon or Saving of Private Ryan buut noooo!
The movie was boring, not emotional at all and the actors are pretty bad. Im so dissapointed in reviews and ratings. And the thing that I almost forgot to say that some scenes are really funny and stupid. They are shooting at him and he is just running and bullet didnt hit him. And all in all im very dissapointed and the movie doesnt deserve all the praises he is getting.
When I first heard that this movie was going to be following the one-shot technique, I was hesitant to watch it. There is a reason why cuts are made. So that the eyes don't get stuck on one scene for too long and the viewer loses interest.
But while watching the movie, the way Mendes and his cinematographer cleverly use their sets and surroundings to change the scene and the location of the camera without having to cut... For that type of coordination and control, a lot of effort went into set building and scene planning with cast and crew.Basically, the cinematography was brilliant.That, and a really good cast of talented actors with incredible music from Thomas Newman...Of course the movie won best picture drama at the golden globes.Do yourself a favor and watch it.
This is the worst movie I've seen since that crappy comedy movie about North Korea. I think the same people who gave high ratings to that movie rated this movie. Basically it's about to guys running through a field for 2 hours. And one of them dies the most stupid way possible. GREAT STORYLINE!
It is unfathomable that this movie gets such high ratings. Mind-B-O-G-G-L-I-N-G.I don't know where to start..(no particular order) The Geman pilot that just crashed managed to stab Blake while Schofield rushes to find water for the hurt pilot. In WW1 pilot's where men of honour and they would 1. Just not do such a thing, and 2. it's idiotic that a weakened haf burned pilot finds the strength for it. The town is levelled, but the church tower is stil intact. Bot only is it intact, but apparently there is someone there to sound the church bell at 5 am? Really? Just before the woman in the basmeent appeared I thought: "soon he finds a woman", and bingo. And yes, she cares for a baby that is not her's without any further context. And yes, Blake is the only soldier in WW1 to have carried milk in his canteen. What Luck for this baby! And so unexpected!The river he jumps in to suddenly turns into a wild stream? Really? In otherwise flat scenery there's not only a wild river but even a 20-foot waterfall? PleaseAs usual, Germans can's shoot straight and a re all drunk, bad, puking, and have I mentioned they can't shot straight?Later he hears singing in the woods, and walks up to a large group of soldiers who did not think it was handy to put up a perimeter guard of any kind, near enemy territory. He sits himself down amongst them but no one notices.Blake (a Corporal) asks every second soldier and officer he finds where MacKenzie is, and they all point him to him, never asking any questions as to who he is and why he wants to see their CO.Scenery: too clean just like the soldiers. explosions take place next to soldiers, but the stand tall without any reaction, or, they stand still for one second and only then get blown to the side (slightly) by the blast.This movie better than Saving Private Ryan? What travesty and utter crap. This movie can't hold a candle to the muppet show. Do not waste your money. I you're looking for brainless entertainment: good for you you might enjoy it.You are a war-movie/history buffin like me, avoid this one. It's just another Dunkirk-like mediocre flick. Dead in the water and a missed opportunity. I'd give it two stars. One star because of all the fake 10/10 reviews.Oh, and the one-take camera approach leaves you longing for a cut after 10 minutes.
Not a bad movie to see the amazing way in which it was filmed. The one continuous shot is a marvel to look at and the cinematography is great. But the camera-work ability does not make an amazing and engaging movie.I know that the director wanted to tell a more personal and slow, intimate story/journey of two average soldiers. But the movie had no impact. There was nothing emotional in the story and you don't get to feel any emotion towards the two soldiers. You don't get to see the brutality of war or a story thats going to affect you and stay with you long after watching the film.If you're making an intimate personal story about the first world war it needs to have an impact. This story was very bland and very slow/boring. This film is a solid 5/10, but certainly doesn't deserve the praise its receiving.
This movie is an insult to the millions who suffered and died. It just does not make sense, isolated regiment (massively stagnant front line), walk into battle only (do not run due to the creeping barrage), Indiana Jones style underground explosions, float down a river in full wooden uniform, webbing and boots, finished off with a waterfall in the middle of the flattest patch of ground on earth. So blatantly hollywoodised it is a blessing that all of the veterans of that war are not alive to see it.
It really disappoints me this movie had nothing beyond fantastic cinematography, some decent acting and some great visuals.The movie lacks story, it lacks depth, it lacks emotional investment in the characters, and it failed at keeping my attention throughout.Now let's get this out of the way I'm not some guy who needs an action scene ever 5 minutes, good dialog would be enough for me but the writing barely even there.So far it seems like 99% of the reviews are about the cinematography and ''1 take'' filming style.This movie ultimately failed to make the audience care for the characters they had in front of them. It failed to show the absolute horror of world war 1. It failed to show the grime and dirt, the desperation in the men, of fighting this war of attrition.This is going to be a bit of rant review, because I was intensely excited for a WW1 movie, and general reviews (I didn't really want to spoil myself with more in depth stuff) were very positive.First of the grit, it seems like they didn't want to show the true horror of this war except through either some dead bodies or injured people in the medical bay. The full last ''action'' scene in particular was something that almost felt PG rated. I'm not asking to see legs flying everywhere, but gore is a part of war, especially the first one. And it missed the mark, why I take the biggest offense from because WW1 was ****** horrific. One of the worst wars in history.But that aside, the characters, William, a soldier that a care about why? They added a little personality to his mate that died, and that was a emotional and unexpected scene for sure. But then we just travel around with this empty shell of a human being. Which I guess, his journey was wanting to die in the war but after telling that brother and seeing his mate die, he realized he didn't want to. But It felt so unsatisfying.With the other people I went with we all agreed we didn't care for the character at all. We just weren't invested in what'll happen to him. And to be honest, I really was expecting him to die, to make fulfill that empty feeling and show the true side of war, but it ended with a happy ending..I guess.Another thing, those germans must be really stupid. A british soldier avoiding multipule german encampments, being spotted by flares. With that flare scene just being a ''cool visuals'' scene in the end. They never chased him down, we barely even saw them for that matter. Seemed like no one really cared for this one enemy soldier, even though everytime we meet a german they want to skin these guys alive seemingly.This leads to the scene with the woman and the baby, he gives food, and leaves, but again.. character development? What was the point of that scene?And wow, just the final scene once he delivers the orders, first he was told to get out, but being persistent he reads them, and okay.. call the men back. That's it? That's what I watched this journey for? No view of the germany's response or from the brits?Pfff.. I can go on, I'll leave it at this.6/10 for cinematography and visuals. The rest is mediocre and I would not recommend friends to spend money on this movie.
Technically it's superb. The storyline is simple and yet effective but nothing that we haven't seen before.
What truly fails is the development of characters: they lack depth, texture, transformation.
If the Academy will award this movie will be a big flaw, except that they do it for political reasons IE plain propaganda.
Don't get me wrong the movie is ok and rather enjoyable. Just average.
The production is amazing, but I didn't like the story.
No surprises. Low budget war flick. Good as made for TV movie. Cheesy dialogues. " They killed the cows!...'pause'....so that we wouldn't Eat them!"....wow....thank you Mr. Obvious.
This is a stunning masterpiece of filmmaking. Unlike any film I have ever seen before. Cinematography is overwhelmingly beautiful and yet suspenseful as it puts you right in the scene as another soldier. Shot in a pov perspective and almost one continual shot from start to finish. Now go see this movie.
All technical marvels are accepted, and the film's brutal realism acknowledged. However, the premise that the British high command would give two flying handshakes about the fate of 1600 troopers is historically bordering on the insane. In 1916, from July through November, the Battle of the Somme took place. The British lost 20,000 men ON THE FIRST DAY. The total dead and wounded was one million. The premise of this film completely negates anything that cleaves to accuracy. Kubrick's 'Paths of Glory' from 1957 was far closer to reality than '1917.' Perhaps something resembling this chain of events did occur in WW I, but that would have been the rarest of exceptions. The lasting impression this film imparted to this reviewer was one of absolution; exoneration for stupendous military incompetence, and for the high command's disdain toward those in the trenches.
A war movie made for 5 years old children, predictable with lots of stupid arguments, who send only 2 soldiers to save 1600 men?
Don't understand the high ratings. It was such an extremely slow movie. Yes, the way it was film may be different but the story line wasn't that fantastic. LCP Schofield running away from snipers and enemy soldiers within close range were very unrealistic. A long 2 hours to see through this movie....
Unless you're 6 years old or suffer from severe PTSD caused by war, this will be the best film you have ever seen, even if you're visually impaired.
This is an amazing film and wonderfully technically to do as continuous elements.
It's over seventy years since Alfred Hitchcock made Rope, which tried to tell a thrilling tale of murder in a swanky New York apartment location with as few shots as possible, the director hiding any sneaky splices with clever visual trickery. For First World War adventure 1917, Sam Mendes pulls off the same illusion, only with the advantages of 21st century technology, meaning that his film is far more seamless and able to cover much more ground: the vast, body-strewn battlegrounds of northern France, to be precise, where Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) are given the unenviable task of delivering a letter to advancing British troops heading into a trap that could cost 1,600 lives.There's no denying that 1917 is an amazing technical feat, with many an impressive shot as Blake and Schofield risk life and limb to head into enemy territory. Director Mendes and cinematographer Roger Deakins pull off the seemingly impossible on many occasions, the camera gliding and sweeping over muddy war-torn terrain, in and out of trenches, and through numerous ruins, rarely leaving the protagonists, clearly the result of much planning and impeccable timing. As such, 1917 is, for the most part, an incredibly immersive experience, putting the viewer right in the thick of it with the heroes, the action both intense and visceral. Occasionally, however, it's all just a little too clever for its own good, with a few moments that are so technically jaw-dropping that they tend to draw the viewer out of the film wondering how the shots were achieved. It's a double-edged sword, that movie-making wizardry!The simplistic script also works for and against the film. I liken the story-line to that of a 'first-person shooter' computer game, where the player controls a character who must complete a mission, overcoming various hazards and enemies along the way, There's not exactly a lot of depth to it -- it's about getting from A to B without being killed, and that's pretty much it. On the flip side, the minimalistic plot does mean that there's a fair amount of action to be had, so I'm not complaining too much. I do have a couple of minor niggles, though -- and considering the incredible attention to detail given to the visuals, I wish that Mendes and co-writer Krysty Wilson-Cairns had managed to write their way round these issues a little better: firstly, trusting a German pilot who has just been shot out of the sky.... stupid, stupid, stupid. Number two: milk... just sitting there for the taking, with no-one else around (and how convenient for a touching scene later on). And lastly, a whole battalion sat listening to someone sing, with no-one on look-out - it's like they're asking to be shot!Despite its problems, I would still recommend the film, especially to those interested the whole process of film-making -- the sets, the costumes, the carefully choreographed action, and the camerawork are astounding, and worth the price of admission alone. If you become invested in the characters and their mission, then that's just a bonus.7.5/10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb.
Don't get me wrong, I love films that exhibit long continuous shots, like Birdman, or Touch of Evil or Hitchock's Rope. Even that Goodfellas tracking shot through the club is fascinating from a technical level.Unfortunately, 1917 - although ambitious on many levels is simply not much more than a VideoGame first person shooter run through.It's exhausting watching this effort to carry out a mission, but it fails to really give us substance.Sorry, kids. Only 5 out of 10.
Movie is incredibly slow, spend an awful lot of movie watching the soldiers walking. No rapper is ever built with the main characters and you are left at the end asking yourself 'is that it'. It also hides some of the brutality such as the when Blake gets stabbed or the tussle on the ground with German officer. Thought the film was very poor
This movie while realistic has only a drab feeling of war war what is it good for. I don't feel much is done here except to confirm that humans are dumb and seem to repeat mistakes over and over. I am very used to this so going to a movie to confirm it is redundant.
Just saw this movie. Disappointed would be an understatement. I appreciated the "one take/scene" approach but the movie overall was SO BORING!
This's not a perfect movie, but it really hits my heart and pains me. The best movie in my heart, even Academy obviously not agree with that, what a shame. Political rights are killing movies.
This epic deserves trophies, but doesn't need the best picture which didn't care with movie itself at all.
It's up there. With Saving Private Ryan, Schindler's list and Band of brothers. It is an emotional, amazing and deeply effecting story with a very effective Camera. Perfect in every way. It should definitely win movie of the year. Ounce upon a time in Hollywood was good but there were flaws in the storytelling. This movie is perfect from beginning to end.
The story is so clear and so straight, that the movie loses its entertainement factor and has only marginal surprising elements in it.It was clear that one of two soldiers brings the message to the targetIt was clear that the story has something like a happy endingIt was clear that the movie has some traumatic scenes in it
I'm at a loss for words to describe how Great a Movie this was. Wow!
Wow just wow !!! The whole movie looks like a single continuous take...
Hats off to all the technicians of the film including the director...No wonder the director won golden globe for this film.The plot is so simple : A team of 2 soldiers go from Point A to Point B to deliver a critical message...that's it.But this has been visualized in such an amazing way..I am just speechless.A definite 10/10.
This movie is not even a true story it's just some story that his grandpa told him
Just want to start with saying the cinematography and visuals are amazing and the first 45 mins blew my mind.. but from there I found myself to become some what bored in the middle waiting for some action. This could be partly my fault though as I went in expecting, I guess, a more 'cliche' war film. Don't stress though, it finished strong.
The direction is a bad copy. The characters too young and cold. A total deception. A big peace of marketing
A masterpiece of cinema. Not an easy watch but everyone 16 years old or older should see it. The members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences really should be ashamed of themselves for picking the very flawed Parasite as Best Picture and not this incredible brilliant film experience.
Set throughout the course of 24 hours during April 1917, two young soldiers in World War I (George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman) are given a mission by their general to travel from their bunker to one deep into enemy territory to warn a regiment of the British army to call off their attack at the break of dawn. There's strong intel that is a trap and in order to save the lives of 1600 men, one of which is one of the protagonists brothers, they need to reach the bunker in time. Sam Mendes is one of today's greatest directors; absolute classics like American Beauty and Road To Perdition and two great Bond films under his belt, make anything his name is attached to worth a watch. It's beautifully dedicated to Lance Corporal Arthur Mendes as mentioned in the credits which give it a moving personal touch. Visually it is incredible and works on the basis of feeling like one continuous shot. I've always loved this idea since I was young and adored films that incorporate this even just for certain scenes such as Alfonso Cuaron's Children Of Men or that great episode of Reece Shearsmith and Steve Pemberton's Psychoville. So this really pleased me from a cinephile perspective! On a technical level, it is a massively impressive achievement and its first hour in particular is non stop intensity, it's truly captivating. I'm sad to admit though that there are a couple of scenes in the last half that I did feel meandered and took me out of the experience a fair bit. There are moments in there designed as a breather from the drama which I felt would be okay if I was more engaged on an emotional level. The performances are absolutely spectacular still, it's just that it's a film written more with the visual scope and atmosphere in mind than necessarily character. Nevertheless, definately worth a watch on the biggest screen you can find!
The movie is impeccable! Great cinematography and a "hold on to your seat" non stop action/drama/suspense. Really! An amazing piece of art. But.. but... it strongly carries a British propaganda undertaking. This is surely disappointing and the main reason for receiving an 8. Germans are terrible and British are heroes!? Enough with this #Brexit story!
1917 starts with a view of resting soldiers, Green trees and landscapes showing the quietness before the war. After this it directly puts you in the war zone through the eyes of two soldiers (Blake and Scofield).
The movie starts with the mission that depends on one brother to save another. But suddenly it becomes the responsibility of the fellow soldier to carry the honor and valor of his friend and fellow soldier. 1917 shows that the bond of friendship is stronger than the horror of War.
1917 never tries to make you choose sides, right or wrong in the war. It depicts how a small yet significant information or effort can save life of 1600 men.
In 1917 Sam Mendes manages to create a compelling movie with the stories of his grandfather Alfred Mendes.
Sam Mendes never tries to make anyone hero during the war. He just presents you with the terror and horror faced by soldiers in WW 1.
1917 is technically brilliant specially the cinematography and background score.
At times Thomas newman's score feels like work of Hans Zimmer.
The single-take (long shot) camera technique of Roger Deakins makes 1917 a incredible watch as the drama unfolds infront of your eyes.
There are few scenes which are high on emotions yet they are so beautifully shot, it feels like the earth is shifting under your feet.
The trip wire scene and The Long shot of planes (Night scene) shooting on Scofield are magnificent example of technical brilliance.Though 1917 is a technical masterpiece, it never runs out of emotions and keeps you engaged with the character's journey.
It shows how many lives are sacrificed during war yet new Life survives.1917 is one of the best WW 1 movies I have scene in recent times. It achieves the technical standards set by Dunkirk but it has a lot more to offer on emotional front.
It's Dunkirk sequel with a lot of emotions. If you have a knack for war movies you won't be disappointed.
1917 leaves you spellbound with the sheer brilliance of it's camera work and craft.
This movie looks beautiful in places and the story of two soldiers chasing through no mans land to stop a doomed assault is an interesting one. The film certainly has a handful of stand out moments - the tunnel scenes and plane crash to mention a couple. One or two scenes are also shocking and one in particular made me jump out of my seat. However it all becomes a bit 'arty' and slightly surreal in places. The ending in particular is weak. The much talked about continuous shot works well in some places but bogs the story down in others. Acting is okay but I found the two leads a little stilted in places and the procession of British character actors in cameos a bit distracting. Do not go expecting a trench based version of Saving Private Ryan..you will be disappointed! Overall an interesting movie which I enjoyed but was slightly disappointed by given all the hype. Look up 'The Lost Battalion' if you want an action packed WW1 film with a great story and likeable characters.
No Man's Land was tense. Blake dying early was interesting, but you knew Schofield was going to make it because someone had to live to tell this story. The point of the movie was to emphasize the futility of war... But that's not exactly some groundbreaking message. Every same person understands this already. The movie was good, and the cinematography was intimate. Overrated though. Doesn't leave any lasting impression on me.
Stay away - don't watch. I have never seen such a boring film in my life 
Tell the truth ....is a bored movie... Saving private Ryan, Pearl Harbor, Peloton and Rambo jajaja better
Another movie that promote violence and weapons. It should be in the same category of the Marvel's: the way it is filmed and actioned.
It is for those who love video games, some of the renderings are pathetically designed for certain demographics.
Yes it is a war movie and the sentiments are good, unfortunately the over emphasis on blood and weapons don't justify the euphoria around it.
Sorry to say, buy I just can't understand how this boring movie got so many good reviews. Good thing I pirated it, too bad I lost 2 hours of time tho. Could have watched a better movie.
This felt like a lot of old stories all mashed together, a loose basic story chucked over the top and all so poorly stitched together you can almost tell when it switches from one story to another. The only impressive part of this patchwork film was the long continuous shot at the start of the film but that wasnt due to the acting or story but the director and film crew get the credit for that. There were so many wtf moments that were so unlikely to happen and a few moments that felt like they couldn't of happened even if it was by chance!
From hearing all the greatness and recommendations for this movie, I was really excited to see it. It's has some great visuals, but the story is too unrealistic, and that makes it quite boring. It's like watching a superhero movie, where the hero can handle everything, that is thrown against him. But since this isn't a superhero movie, I lost my interest quite early you're never really feeling with the main characters.
1) It was so boring I wished I could leave halfway through. 2) The plot is very average. 3) There are tons of inaccurate or illogical things. For example, the whole premise of just two men carrying a crucial message is laughable. Then they have to cross enemy lines to meet their army again? How is that? Then they survive an explosion in the underground room, with no scars: that's impossibile. And so on and on and on. Terribly staged plot. 4) The cinematography is breathtaking, but you know what, that long shot (or should I say two shots, they were two shots) was boring and annoying. 5) The beautiful scenes, such as the shadows in the city. Again, am I watching a painting or a movie? This use of eye-candy strips all of the emotional involvement. Do you want me *into* the battle, or outside looking beautyful pictures? This is a critical and rather basic mistake. 6) Overall, this is an average movie with good looks and the huge minus of being utterly pretentious. Same as Dunkirk. I hate this millennial, hollow, falsely artistic style. It's a shame it's a nominee for the Best Movie award.
...but talk about the Emperor's New Clothes.
It was on the same level as the recent Dunkirk; looked good but absolutely style over substance. It was WW1 for the videogame generation but without the gore.
Episodic; empty landscapes; implausible behaviour and actions from all involved.
Plus if you want me to be nitpicky... church bells ringing the hour in a destroyed and inferno town; too many occasional black faces (sorry guys but even in WW2 it didn't happen like that); too many fat soldiers (Daniel Mays, anyone); too many Star Wars Stormtroopers dressed up as Germans (oh wait, perhaps it was their ancestors, errmm descendants) and the Cruel and Evil Hun Pilot! (see Flyboys). Plus a plotline that dragged out Mel Gibson's one and only great performance - in Gallipoli - into a two-hour plod. And what was Mark Strong's warning 'make sure you get witnesses' about. It had absolutely no bearing on the film whatsoever.
Unlike Saving Private Ryan or the original Dunkirk, or even Gallipoli, I won't be watching this again. Wish we'd have gone to see Jojo Rabbit instead.
Right, well I took my time getting around to watching this movie, but eventually got the chance to sit down and watch it.Let me just start by saying that the movie is enjoyable and watchable, for sure. Especially the first 35 minutes of the movie, because it really shows how gritty, ugly and atrocious war is. And the way that whole part of the movie was set up was just amazing.Then the next 25 minutes, the movie started to gear down, as the two characters were trekking about. Sure, it was still enjoyable. Then the last hour of the movie it just fell into mediocrity, and the movie never got out of that slump. And it was a shame, because it was off to such a marvelous start.This movie is no "Saving Private Ryan", although there are similarities, for sure. But they are two very different movies, both in story and entertainment value.I watched the movie, and was adequately entertained, however, I can't say that this is a movie that I will be returning to watch a second time around, because the movie just didn't have that much to offer. And those glorious 35 minutes in the start of the movie just didn't stretch to salvage the rest of the movie.It should be said that the acting in the movie was adequate. Sure, this is not a movie that is heavy of thespian acting performances, but the people were doing good enough jobs with their given roles. But I really don't think that anyone were given any proper chance to shine and stand out in throughout the course of the movie.Visually, then "1917" was good. It was a dirty and gritty movie, definitely making it feel like an authentic WW1 movie, and it did feel like you were right there in the muck with the soldiers.My rating for the movie was initially going to be a 6 out of 10 stars, but because of the sliding down into mediocrity, then the movie settles on a 5 out of 10 stars from me. While it is watchable and enjoyable enough for what it turned out to be, it was by no means a milestone in war story cinema.
This film is RUBBISH.
Anyone with an ounce of military know-how would also know this.
There is so much wrong with this film I could write over 2 sides of A4.
But, apart from the dreadful inconsistency and ridiculous lack of anything resembling military practice WHY would only a pair of men be sent to deliver such an important message?
They watch aeroplanes (instead of getting on with their task) and one has to think (if one has at least one brain cell) why an aeroplane was not sent to land behind the British forward line and deliver the message?
If a German 'plane can be shot down in flames and the pilot survive the crash AND survive the fire AND kill a messenger then a Brit pilot could have flown to deliver the message. Far more believable.
War Horse was such a better film.
These two walk across a water-logged wasteland, enter a tunnel and then appear in a desert-like landscape. Was this Narnia? Who wrote this tripe?
When buried after a rat set off a trip wire, he is hauled out and his helmet is still on his head even though neither of them used their chin straps. They walked and talked - not tactical at all. They entered buildings instead of boxing around them. The last chap engaged a sniper (very poorly) and then entered the darn building. Did he use his grenades that were made such a fuss of at the beginning? NOooooo! He risked the outcome of the mission (saving 1600 men to have a duel). I had to stop watching for a while at this point. The raid he was supposed to stop was to start at dawn and yet with the sun up he sat down and listened to a soldier singing. Please... Give me a break. And throughout the film he had the chance many times over to shout his message to stop the attack, but he did not do this. He had to deliver it to the Colonel. Really? He would have told everyone he met in reality (a) so the message got through if he died (b) because the message would have spread by word of mouth. HOW did the message survive the torrential river scene? How did the paper it was written on survive for that matter? As I say; this film was RIDICULOUS. He even dried off very quickly. I have only pointed out a FEW of the points that made this farcical. WHO has been writing these good reviews? Have they watched:
War Horse
American Sniper
13 Hours; the secret soldiers of Benghazi? True stories, well told and worthy of airing.
This 2 hour INCREDULOUS mess is an INSULT to any soldier and certainly an insult to the poor souls that fought and died in WWI.
Went with high hopes, left disappointed.
What was all the fuss about?
This is a very average movie based on the flimsiest of plots. There are so many holes it's like a swiss cheese.
why would two very average corporals be chosen for such an important mission? Surely a officer would be sent?Could not an aircraft have been sent to drop a message?Why were truckloads of British troops driving around no mans land heading for the same place the corporals were going.Why did these troops not assist with dealing with the sniper?Where in northern France is there a river with a 25 foot water fall?How come the letter survived the river...waterproof ink? I doubt it.What was the point of the meeting with the girl in a German occupied town? and why had the Germans not found and removed her?Why was the surviving corporal allowed to wander into the group listening to the singer? No sentries posted? Unlikely.In 1917, would a Lt Colonel really tell a corporal to F off?Why was no mans land in the final attack just an open field? No mud, no wire, no shell holes, no bodies...Add to all this the contrived coincidences scene by scene and it all adds up to a very average mess.
The so-called wonder filming techniques used were...well underwhelming. If I had not know about them, I would never have noticed.
Is it BAFTA or OSCAR worthy? no, not by a very long way
We don't really know anything about the star of the movie and so there is no investment in him. Yes we want him to make the journey to warn the troops and we go along the run with him, but really that's it. It's an empty movie, by the time he finds the brother for his friend you have forgotten all about his friend and know nothing about him so you really don't care. Such a shame...
To put it succinctly, the movie is vividly full of both gorgeous environmental scenery and the horrific carnage of war.The storyline, on the other hand, is terribly empty coupled with some realism problems (i.e., as if they didn't hire a military advisor). It's like all the effort went into the former, and very little into the latter.To keep from any spoilers, I will put this generally, even in the film's culmination- which took nearly two hours to build- it felt utterly lackluster.
Easily 2 of the most gripping hours in a theater I've experienced all year. Through a series of extended shots made to look like one continuous take, we follow (without breathers) Lance Corporal Blake and Schofield through a visceral and relentless journey during WWI. In addition to top notch direction, set design and music, I'm left with just two words: Roger. Deakins. The man is simply the greatest cinematographer to have ever lived and here he captures nothing short of technical brilliance. The man deserves b2b Oscars for this masterpiece!
Not sure how this movie is so highly rated. This movie is extremely slow and boring. The most boring war movie I've ever seen.
I don't like writing reviews that would give a spoiler so I hope you can kind of follow along.I waited months for this movie to come out, it didn't come out when I thought it would release, and now that I finally saw it, it wasn't as wild as I anticipated.Think, following Frodo and Sam from the Shire to Mount Doom, but only them. There were quiet, intense parts and loud in your face parts, but in the end it's a journey of love, courage, friendship, and the never quit attitude.Overall, I give "1917" a 6/10. The whole continual shot was cool and fun at times because it's from their perspective, but at times the continual shot got slightly annoying because it felt too much like a virtual tour. The story is well written, well acted, and emotionally driven, but not it's fullest extent. "1917" is worth seeing once, but not necessarily in theatres IMHO.
I just can't understand how can this film be so highly rated. This is absolutely the worst war movie i've ever seen. Poor and unconvincing acting, laughable 5th grade-like dialogue (especially at the beginning), pointless scenes (such as the french lady spot, totally unnecessary stuff), dreadful makeup (completely clean faces while hands and bodies covered in blood), such clear photography for a war picture, non-realistic visual effects (like the ones during the explosions at the end), the costumes could've been much more trustworthy as well. It gets hard to people who have watched 'Saving Private Ryan' and even 'Pearl Harbour' to swallow such a film. And the worst: it gets a 8.5 rating and it is nominated even to Best Motion Picture. Either I'm going crazy, or is this world.
Boring movie compared to hacksaw ridge and saving private Ryan.
Expected more after seeing reviews and award nominees, was kinda disappointed!
1917. Breathtaking, raw and inspirational. Leaving you speechless and shook to your core, you will not find a better war film. Watch this, buy this and learn from it.
This was an intense and expertly crafted film, very much worth your time, not just for the effects but for the impressive sound/score/directing.
If you only look at the Cinematography then this movie is extreamly good, but a movie like this also have to have a story and that is what this movie is lacking - the story is not interesting and it reminds me of a bad vision of "Saving Private Ryan" with acting not nearly as good. It is hard to understand how this movie kan win a golden globe for best movie.
The lead actor does not even give a convincing performance of his personal struggle with the mission that he has been choicen for and how he goes from being against it to make it his own personal mission after his friends dead.
It is not a movie I will watch again, because it is very simple borring.
He ruined the bond films by trying to bring back the nostalgia cheese.He's now tried to be quirky with the way he's filmed this film and in some scenes it works but like over people have said it looks and feels like a video game. The cast is excellent. And the main actor is a fantastic.The story line I believe is from a relative mendes had that would tell him stories of the war too. And Mendes had tried to squeeze a film out of it and it just doesn't stretch.It's ok it's certainly not a 10 maybe a 6 at most but as Mendes ruined my favorite Bond in Daniel Craig it's a bitter 5 stars for me.
When the first trailer was released I knew that this was going to be a phenomenal film. The cinematography is one of the best I've ever witnessed and the score is absolutely amazing. I'm glad that the First World War is finally getting the attention it deserves in cinema. In addition, the movie had me at the edge of my seat the entire time along with the rest of the sold out theatre. In my opinion this is the best war movie that we have had the opportunity to view since Saving Private Ryan. Expect this movie to win many awards especially at the oscars and golden globes.
It has to be said, British War movies are boring.Dunkirk 2.0Waste of time
I found the film watchable enough with some excellent acting. But while it did provide an interesting story it was seriously flawed in many respects. It is important to understand that after 3 years of total war, the frontline was NOT a narrow strip of mud and barbed wire with quiet green fields and lush woodland in abundance on either side. The front moved backwards and forwards regularly and the carnage spanned 50 miles at its narrowest point, with constant artillery barrages and sniping 24/7. Even in the quieter areas this was still to be seen and heard in the distance. With armies of millions of combatants there was a huge and constant logistical/supply network reaching many miles back behind each line. The chances of two soldiers wandering at will through the lines and into untouched farmland beyond are virtually nil because if such an unlikely situation arose they would be accompanied by thousands of their own troops keen to exploit any opportunity and capture even the narrowest strip of turf. The Germans did withdraw to stronger prepared positions on occasion but only in an orderly fashion with a strong rearguard and they were pushed and probed throughout by opposing forces. When the withdrawal stopped, the combatants promptly lined to face each other in this new position. The idea that 1600 men could pursue an enemy well beyond the battle zone on the western front with no logistical support is frankly mere fantasy. If such an unlikely situation did arise, the whole army group would be alongside them. Communications were difficult but contact with such a large group would have been maintained with a series of runners and signallers - even in the highly unlikely event of the group pushing so far ahead on their own. In 1917 this did not happen. I was a little disappointed to see the main character jumping into a raging torrent and being washed to safety down a deep limestone gorge filled with rapids and a huge waterfall - especially as I had seen this being filmed on the white water kayak course at the Tees Barrage (with the later cgi addition of rocks/gorge/waterfall). Anyone who knows the flat lands of Flanders or the slightly hilly Somme (ie the British sector of the front) will have wondered how the set suddenly moved to alpine terrain for this scene - especially given his short walk from the riverbank to the chalk lands of the final battle. Doubtless there are those who will think I am being picky but when the producers have gone to great lengths to create an authentic trench system with equally realistic no-mans-land and destroyed village, they let themselves down by failing to maintain that atmospheric authenticity throughout the film. I just wonder whether an overall historian gets employed in these productions, to shed some realism on the bigger issues rather than just costume and the finer points. I would liken it in this respect to two recent war films which started well but Lost momentum: Dunkirk which needed 300,000 extras not 300 (cgi?) and Fury which needed someone to rein in the big Tarrantino-esq unbelievable finish!
1917 is a watchable film but please dont make the mistake of thinking it captures the atmosphere of the Western Front because it actually falls a long way short. And I haven't even mentioned the similarity in the final storyline of Gallipoli, which is a far better film!!
Even though it's my favourite genre, i haven't been blasted by this movie.
In my opinion the story is one of the best parts.
Sound and camera are outstanding, therefore the oscars for those categories.
Overall i can't understand the outstanding reviews, as it is a new and nice, but fairly average war movie in my opintion.
A movie for teenagers. Shallow dialogues, white/black characters, badly performed at times, great visual effects. Take your kids with you.
Technically it was brilliant,but the mv makes me yawn.
What a beautiful made movie... just wished they had put more effort into the story.20 min of excitement, but then it slows down the rest of the movie, and it's just a poor and lazy writing job.I will give them credit for the way it was filmed, that's an Oscar worthy.But no wear near the league of film like; Saving Private Ryan, Platoon, The Thin Red Line, Stalingrad or one random episode of Band of Brothers.Again, the script is way to poorly written, to even come close to War movies like those above.
1917 is filmed as if it's one long take as we follow two British soldiers on a time sensitive mission to save 1600 men from walking into a German trap. While the cinematography and direction are Oscar worthy, the film packs no emotional punch and fails to achieve any real sense of urgency during its 2 hour run time.***SPOILER ALERT***As the movie begins there's no context regarding the state of the war, who is winning - what's at stake (strategically) if these men die at this battle. The only emotional connection you have to the 1600 men who are destined to be slaughtered (by machine guns which came of age during WWI - the script doesn't bother to paint any sort of picture for the viewer) - is that of the faceless hundreds is the brother of one of the protagonists. That's it.The two leads are fine actors but there's nothing about their characters that pops off the screen.. When the two run into danger, they're put in situations that make no logical sense. For instance, the two see a trip wire right in front of them - there's a bomb wired to go off - a rat triggers the wire HUGE EXPLOSION! Yet, of the two soldiers one isn't harmed at all (no burns, no shrapnel) and the other gets buried in debris but is left without a single burn or any shrapnel injury. Then this powerful explosion- that caused no injury to either soldier - makes the entire trench start to collapse as if it's built with dominos?Sometimes the characters are in a huge rush, and other times they take their time waxing about cherry trees and sipping unspoiled milk?? at an abandoned farm. German soldiers have the same aim as stormtroopers, yet our hero manages to shoot a sniper 100 yards away by shooting blindly.There's lots of dead bodies along the way, but Mendes isn't showing us any horrors that haven't already been seen in way too many war films. The one take style becomes distracting after about 10 minutes or so, bringing your attention more to the difficulty of the technical achievement behind the camera than the lifeless story unfolding in front of it.
Just another war story... there must be many millions of them. I saw no great revelations in this one.
1917 will captivate you from the beginning to the end. There is never a dull moment in this journey of a film. The movie was filmed in one shot so you reallt feel like youre travelling with them. From the walks towards the horizon, to the explosions, you will feel what they feel and love the movie as a whole. Truly mesmorizing and definitely recommend worth watching.
Great camera work, great shots of the locations i.e the trenches , dead man's land , the dead bodies etc, it is very depressing and bleak which I all loved but the story was overall poor. You never really feel for the characters that much apart from the death scene. The dialogue is poor and the acting starts very poor. The best scene was when the plane came down and the young soldier gets stabbed and dies. A messed up scene which makes you feel rather strange and sick . I think that scene will stay with me for a while. Nothing much else happens apart from a sniper missing him with shots about 10 times even though he is in clear sight, in daylight, a few Germans chasing him and missing him yet again with their shots and him getting away, rather far fetched. An okay try but not a classic. Definitely going to be overated. 7/10 for me because of the amazing camera work and the death scene.
Not sure what all the fuss is about this movie, but giving it a 1 star is very generous. Waste of time and money. I was expecting a 'saving private Ryan' type movie, but was very disappointed.
More boring then a soap opera. this movie put me in depresion. i have never seen a movie with no action like this one. its incredible how for the first time i felt like i lost 2 hours waiting for action that never came. only walking and chating. i feel like i have to wath saving private ryan. its the only way i can get out of the depresion this movie put me in to. so much money wasted on ww1 soap opera.
Clearly, putting actors through war just so they'll be able to portray soldiers in battle believably is nothing a sane person would consider. But that doesn't mean that doing what 1917 does is a good idea: having soy boys portray men of arms. The performance of the main actors makes it just too painfully obvious that, growing up, they were never yelled at, slapped, punched and never had to endure any other significant amount of physical discomfort, i.e. never went hungry, never froze and, presumably, never had to walk more than a few bus stops. Being unable to fathom/understand even low-level intensity of violence and suffering, they seem bizarrely out of place in a WWI-setting. And that, in turn, makes for something worse than just a boring and non-immersive movie: a mockery of the unimaginable pain and sacrifice their grandfathers went through in order to keep Europe free.
The desire to make one long endless tracking shot seriously interrupts the story. For example, when the soldiers are crossing through corpse strewn battlefields we get only a brief glimpse of the carnage. A pause to consider the broken body parts would help serve the story, but instead we get only a peripheral look.
Beautiful visual cinema.Plot wholes wider than the Western Front.Story goes nowhere in no particular hurry.But not nearly as bad say as Bumblebee or Hacksaw Ridge.
Although it did not start out that way. It started with this slow burn the used to set up the camera motion that remained constant through the film. If you ever seen Birdman you get the idea. This camera motion helped keep the movie going and full of energy at the same time the angels put us right in the action. We basically saw everything from the point of view of the protagonist.
It seems like all these world war movie have that same cinematic tone. Feels like they just started to invent color in 1917. It's a cool feeling that makes them all match up and I note it makes it easier to conceal certain effects.
Overall, this movie gave good energy and is one of the best war epics I laid eyes on.
Got a few issues with this film.
1. The letter. Why is is not a ball of wet mush? Even the ink isn't smudged.
2. German soldiers that went to the Star Wars Stormtroopers School I'd Learn To Shoot. Even the shrapnel couldn't hit the side of a barn.3.Trust an enemy to be quiet if you take your hand off his mouth hey?
4. Amazing that not one soldier questions- or even notices-that a unidentified wet and muddy soldier isstaggering through the undergrowth and joins them whilst listening to a guy sing...for too long.I could mention a few more (lady with baby...why does this scene even exist? The cliche waterfall. )Anyway, anybody heard of an 1981 Aussie film starring Mel Gibson, "Gallipoli "?
Well the writers of1917 obviously have.
Watch it... it's a better movie with no cgi rats in it.
I usually love these type of films, but this was dull, I sat waiting for something to happen the entire film, It's just a film crying out for awards, some of the acting was dire, the action seemed forced, really disappointed..
Hard to stay awake for this one. Even harder to understand how people can rate this movie a 10/10.Disappointed from the start to the finish.
What an absolute load of tosh. Pretending to be shot in one take is the only interesting thing about this B Movie.
Some nice scenes with beautiful (yet fake) light and some cool sound effects. Thats pretty much it for me. Obviously I belong to the minority since the average score is well above 8. But for me, this movie was extremely boring. I had absolutely zero connection to any of the characters and I just couldnt care less if they lived or died. The dialogue was completely flat and didnt create any emotions in me. At least not sad when I was supposed to feel sad. At times it felt like a mix of Saving Private Ryan and Lord of the Rings. It just lacked all the drama and great acting. It jumped to conclusions way too fast, and the main characters just didnt build a relationship to their audience.
Its actually beyond me if this movie win a single award. I just cant understand what that should be for.
I was looking forward to seeing this but I was so very disappointed. All the major scenes were completely over egged, not in an action packed kind of way but exaggerated to the point that the characters decisions made no sense. From trying to tightrope walk over a bridge in full view of any enemy soldiers for miles around to the ridiculous scene of running across no man's land, it was hard to feel taken by this movie. Indeed its easy to see why the Germans lost this war considering their troops must have been trained to shoot by Star Wars own Stromtroopers plus the main character never had to reload his weapon, Infinite ammo certainly is a big advantage in war.In fairness to it, the movie looks amazing, but while there is certainly a story there threatening to reveal itself it gets lost behind theatrics.
Unless a family member is in this movie, don't do it!
Really, i dont understand why this movie have a good rating, I expected more
I enjoyed it and I feel like it had it's heart in the right place but there were too many things that just didn't work.Pros
Their heart was in the right place and they showed a touching story with a good message.They experimented with style (one-shot technique) which hopefully brought more people in to see it.The acting was quite good.It was quite entertaining.Cons
The one-shot technique did not work for me. It felt more like a lets-play of a video game (like Oblivion or Skyrim). There was even a 'game over scene' so to speak and a starting a new level scene. The characters you encounter often felt like NPC with awkward one liners that you just walk away from once their dialogue is done.The characters made too many mistakes that they didn't learn from. They looked like completely green soldiers who kept forgetting that they were in a war and fighting the Germans, as they kept trying to save them! And each time they were shocked that the germans actually wantes to kill them in return...Much like in a game, the germans were completely one dimensional killing machines. Even when being saved their only response was to kill. It felt awkward and unnatural. In real life there might have been more back and forth and more morally grey areas.The main character completed his journey only because he was lucky (and not because of any smart decisions or skill, of which he had none). I highly doubt that the person he is based off was this reckless and stupid.There are too many coincidences: the rat, the plane, the cow, finding the right people at the right time etc. Again it's too much like a video game where you know it will work out and where events happen because you are the main character.Weird plot holes where his important letter and photographs are completely fine even though he spent a long time submerged in water... And where he drinks milk from a dirty bucket that has been there for god knows how long and then offers it to a baby...A missed opportunity to show that this was indeed a 'world' war and was actually quite international with different battalions from different countries. Instead they just did diversity box ticking that made no sense historically.I am glad this film exists and it is a better war film than many, however, for me, the flaws are too great to give it a higher score. It would have made a better video game than a film in my opinion.
My expectations for "1917" were not to high since I am not a big fan of war themed movies, although I really enjoyed Dunkirk and Hawksaw Ridge. To put us simple, 1917 is a good movie if you look at it in a technical perspective. The way it was shot is undeniably amazing and it takes some talented crew to get the amazing result, making us believe it was made in one single shot (although we know that's not the case).
Unfortunately there's pretty much it about "1917". The plot is non existent. I am not being sarcastic, there's literally no story here aside from taking one message from point A to point B. That's it. There's an attempt to create some side stories with random characters that just came out of nowhere, but there's no emotional connection with any of them. And I think this is the major s problem with 1917: you don't feel any emotional connection with the characters and because of that I couldn't care less about what happened to the character's.
I honestly believe that if this movie was shot like any other movie, it would be easily forgotten because, like I said before, the story is nothing more than delivering a message. Period. And since the main character is mostly alone, you don't see any dialogue, any way for you to connect.
As much respect that I have for all the crew involved in this project, I must admit that it didn't work for me.
Not the best war film I've seen, not a lot acutally happens, the wrong main character dies. Around average and totally over rated
Sam Mendes again. Great production, set design amazing...go the poor folk who built it. But not great. Quite a boring movie actually, but kudos to all that worked on another Mendes movie. Mendes! Your film accolades are commercial only. Enjoy ur Oscars
I've seen some reviews say this is the greatest war movie ever and that baffles me. The story was very predictable & left little to the imagination. Cinematography is amazing though & was very well shot.Also not sure why it was rated R. PG-13 would have been better in my opinion.
While the direction, editing and sound design is top notch, the pacing really hurt this film. There are many moments where I sat there bored because a scene would go on for too long. And because the characters are not that interesting, I can't immerse myself into the movie. Would still reccomend seeing it for the direction and cinematography, though, because it is amazing.
The film is a technical marvel as it's entirely shot in one take similar to Birdman but doing a one shot take in such a vast open battlefield complete with the river jump sequence is a new level of one take wizardry. The story follows two soldiers in WWI who must deliver a message to a battalion on the front line to cancel the attack as it's a trap. That's pretty much the story as the film is more of a visual experience told from a first person perspective of the journey to deliver the message. It's similar to Dunkirk where there isn't much story. The problem is vast chunks of time is spent just watching the soldiers walking around and observing the war torn landscape which is hauntingly beautiful. Only halfway through the movie do we get our first sniper shootout which lasts a couple minutes. Then it's back to walking around and running. That's the entire essence of the movie. The soldier uses his rifle in the sniper shootout scene and briefly in one earlier scene but that's the extent of the gunfights. In comparison, Saving Private Ryan and Fury were far more action packed, brutal and entertaining. Of course 1917 is meant to be a visual first person point of view experience and succeeds on that front but I can't help but think the one take technique is mostly a gimmick. I think the film might be better with more takes rather than entirely shot in one take as this allows more perspectives, more depth to the story and allows for time jumps so it's not constrained by the real time limitations of one take. The one take technique can add an immersive experience when used in certain scenes like a frontline battle but I'm not sure it's as effective when used for the entirety of a movie. Overall I enjoyed the film but I would have liked more story and more action. I found the ending somewhat anticlimactic and unsatisfying.I saw 1917 after seeing Parasite which won best picture and director. And I only saw them both after the Oscars. I avoided Parasite because I do not enjoy reading subtitles. But after winning best picture I saw Parasite and enjoyed it but did not think it was that great to deserve best picture and director as I likened it to a clever twist on the home invasion genre with an allegory of class conflict. But now that I've seen 1917 which was the frontrunner to win best picture and director I can appreciate why the academy voted for Parasite. 1917 is a great sensory experience but story wise is hollow. Also there isn't much action so nearly the entire runtime is just watching the soldiers walking around and running and that's it. If more story and battle scenes were added it could've been so much more entertaining. Best picture is relative and subjective. At first I didn't think Parasite deserved best picture but now that I've seen 1917 I do think Parasite is the better choice. Parasite has a simple but rich story with great characters and characterization with a clever twist and a strangely sad but satisfying conclusion that's believable. Not to take anything away from 1917 as it's a huge technical achievement. Both are good films but Parasite is far more memorable and stays with you after the movie ends.
I have never been to war, but experienced my share of life-threatening situations, including facing the wrong end of a gun. Watching this movie almost felt like the real deal, it let me glimpse the human condition in war. Ruthless reality coming at you too fast to allow pondering on your emotions, having to tuck it all away in order to stay alert, in order not to die. The randomness of who gets to live and who doesn't. One second your companion stands beside you, the next he is dying, and then on. Trying to focus on what is relevant in the now and here, and not losing focus on where you need to go. The actors deliver a brilliant performance in conveying this struggle convincingly. Additionally, brilliant screenplay and cinematography. One of the best movies I have ever watched.
A story isn't told exclusively by dialogue, this movie proves us that, trough amazing visuals we are told not only the adventure of being inside the war but also we live the struggle as if we were in there.
When i was watching it I felt like i was watching the Greatest Movie Ever Made in World Cinema History.
Performance, vfx, score, direction, camera moment everything was great and the cinematography was like hell. One of the best war drama movie ever made and the best movie on World War I.
Just outstanding. Brillant performance. Sam and the boys have nailed it. There is so much to take away from such a awasome performance.
1917 is perhaps the best example of a movie that I can think of where it actually feels like a war experience and as if you are there with these two soldiers. It's a movie that expertly builds up tension throughout by using silence, music, and the awesome direction by Sam Mendes. It also amazes me how I felt like anything could happen at any moment during the film, which really kept me on edge during almost the entire runtime. It's also a movie that can really capture the desperate situation soldiers faced during the World War and how beautiful the little things in life can be, especially when faced with all of this darkness. Things like a baby or leaves falling off a beautiful tree. It's almost like a horror movie in the sense that you are waiting for a "jump scare" of sorts throughout the entire runtime. Some people have criticized the lack of characterization, but I would disagree. I believe we get just enough information to be invested in the success of this particular mission, and enough to care about the lives of the people we follow. I loved this movie and I really don't have anything bad to say about it.
Twenty minutes into the film you will be gripped, by the end of this film you will realise you have just watched the greatest war film ever made, Sam mendes has created a real masterpiece.
I saw it twice within a week and could watch it again, no problem. It is the most intense, riveting movie I have ever witnessed. Truly an awesome (a much overused word, but appropriate here) cinematic accomplishment!
L left my home around 12 pm today , to head ti the theater where this was playing. I'd been wanting to see it since it was released but was always sidetracked by something going on in my life.I arrived there before 1:00 and the movie started at 1:02.I'm sure as most here may have felt before it began ... I had NO idea what to expect or what I was going to see. I've seen many a war movie in my life ,
from the black and white era to Saving Private Ryan and Fury in 2014. .....but (and I am not exaggerating) , this film has captured exactly every feeling, emotion, action of those made to fight in the truly nightmarish and holocaust like places that are the front lines and battlefields.They have also fully captured the look of everything a military set up and used in this , World War 1 and future wars. The look is sad, scary,somber and in some cases as dark as war truly is. (Not speaking from any experience but I know this movie does not lie). The cinematography, yes, does pull that off perfectly , in my opinion.As some already know the story is , two British soldiers are chosen to get a message to another regiment many miles across 'no man's land' ( where if the enemy spots you , you are likely to get shot and killed). The reason is, the Germans have retreated but it may be a trick. So they have to get there to warn them and find the brother of the younger soldier.From the start, the bulk of the first half is filmed in 'real time'. following every move of these 2. Without giving anything away, there's a slight pause of darkness, then the real time pursuit continues. I was astounded at how steadily and perfectly the camera (cameras?) followed along.Lastly, in an early morning scene in a village, the true look of war/night time battle is (once again) shown by (I can only call it astounding) visuals and cinematography. Usually a few hours after a film, I've forgotten most of what I've seen. In this case ....even if I never watched this film again (and I will) there is no way I will ever forget any of this.Much like those who survives wars , they never forget either. World War 1 , for a long time after 1930's "All Quiet On The Western Front" , was very forgotten and thought by younger generations as 'not a serious war'. This movie , like Western Front, shows that is not the case. At 3:01 , my odyssey was over.It was was just as violent and horrific as World War 2 or any war since then. I will not make any Oscar predictions here. Except to say , I'd be very pleased to see it placed among the the top pictures of the past.Please , go see this ...I put no spoilers in here because ,feel , it is not boring and it's certainly something you will ever forget. Not everyone will feel the same but well, I can only recommend.
A visually and technically impressive, gripping until a certain point but then the holes in the implausible storyline weaken the overall impact, to the point where it feels unsatisfying and not engaging any longer.Instead watch Elem Klimov's 'Come and See', a visionary cry of despair from the depths of hell -as a reviewer wrote-, and rewatch Coppola's epic masterpiece 'Apocalypse Now'
What was this absolute crap..... Most over rated film ever!!! Thank god I didnt go cinema to watch this. Avoid this movie at all costs
This is a good film, there are some marvellous scenes depicting the horrors of war but there was not enough action involved for my liking, I get its trying to show you that they're all afraid young blokes but they could have thrown in some extra firefights or explosions just to bring the audience further into it. The ending was a bit of an anti climax aswell. watchable but needed some extra touches to be right up there, wish it had been
The movie is technically perfect. Beautiful shots (not, it's not a single shot) all over the place and one of the best cinematography works I've ever seen.However, it lacks passion, good characters and a more compelling story. The first 30 minutes are really boring and, even if it gets much better after that, you never really care about the characters.It's good enough because it looks great and you always want to see what will be the next beautiful shot. Watch it like an episode of Planet Earth, however don't expect a cinema masterpiece.
It's beautifully made and has just enough action to keep tensions high and tug at the heartstrings, intimately depicting the human cost of war. I got emotional a few times.I do caution that as a War movie, it's more of a drama than an action film. Sure there's action and suspense, and some thrills, but this isn't Saving Private Ryan or Dunkirk from a visceral standpoint. It's smaller in both scale and scope.1917 follows a couple of soldiers as they journey to the front line carrying information which could save over a thousand of their fellows soldiers' lives... if they get there in time.It's in the aforementioned scale and scope where 1917 falls short of being great. The main plot of the movie suffered for not being big enough or feeling important enough. There's no storming of the beaches at Normandy. No rousing Winston Churchill speech at the end. The film doesn't connect the events it depicts into their greater significance in the war. Again, it felt small scale and narrow in scope.But to reiterate, I very much liked it. It's a lovely film filled with tension and emotion, think Kubrick's Paths of Glory without the 10/10 ending. Great work by all involved: Director Sam Mendes, Composer Thomas Newman, the whole cast and crew.One of the years best films, probably at the bottom of my top ten.
It only has like 3 shots and haves one of the most beautiful scenes in movie history.
It only has like 3 shots and produces one of the most beautiful scenes in movie.
Like many here, not a huge fan of war movies. Especially because I simply don't like wars(?). But this movie had me blown away(no pun intended) from start to finish. This was such an incredible experience, everything from the amazing acting (which should've had an Oscar nominee), one of the finest cinematography I've ever seen and the revolutionary camerawork. Such a thrill, sad to see that it didn't win best motion picture.
Personally, I've always wanted a First world war movie with a budget of more than a indie project, and 1917 fulfilled this role, and more.
Spoiler Alert! You've been warned!
1. The Plot: It's simple. Two soldiers are tasked with delivering an urgent message or 1600 men (Along with one of the twos's brother) will fall into a german trap and die. The way it goes about this is what stunned me. One second your telling a funny story, the next your holding your dead friend. It never bogs down, even in the slower parts, and keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time. One minor problem I have, is that they could develop the characters a little more, but that doesn't matter much.
2. The cinematography: It is amazing, like everyone else says. The 'one continuous shot" thing actually works, and I could only count one time where they made a cut. There were also scenes that genuinely took my breath away. The Town being lit up by flares (for example) is easily the best cinematography I've ever seen, and one of the best scenes of the entire decade.
Conclusion: One of the best movies of the year, and sure contender for best picture 1917 is an incredible, gritty joy ride but is ever so slightly bogged down by less character development.
9.6/10
Something that everyone needs to see. Probably the only way to avoid all this pain and sadness the war can cause. One of the best and heart touching movies ever.
Wow! The camera work, the sets, the cinematography. Unreal because it was so real. You feel as though you are part of this epic the entire way through.I felt a little overcome at times but then I guess this heightened the sense of being in the action.Loved that the director didn't overplay the heroism or the horror or the pathos. Just in your face realism. Obviously there was a lot of over the top action and plot twists, it is a movie. But, what a movie!A must, must see!!!
Music is doing whole film. It's holding in tension and shows us what to expect or what not to expect. It's good film.
This is one of the best ww one movies arround, very good picture shots.
1917 is a film with a very well achieved use of a long shot, which has an intention to the message of the film. The film represents a cyclical process of the characters. In the opening shot the characters start on the floor, resting. This first shot is a static one of a grass and some flowers and we begin to back off, this means that what allows us to rest will be moving away more and more from us. Or worse, we are the ones who move away from that.That last idea expresses the disagreement against the war that the film (and every good war movie has) communicates. This is indicated with false conformism in all soldiers along the way. From the ironic names of the trenches, to the attitude of the captain before leaving the trenches.The film generates empathy by including a human purpose to the war, such as avoiding the death of a brother and saving many men who will unnecessarily go to fight. The purpose of the long one shot is to generate that trip that seems to have no return. Then, we realize that it does have an end. The surviving character ends as he starts resting in a tree. Of course, the difference is that now he is alone and that is the difference between the beginning and the end of both the film and the war.An important and symmetrical element during the film are the flowers seen at the beginning, these appear in moments of calm, in the most sacred moments taken from the war situation. The flowers can be seen at the beginning, when a character dies and finally at the end of the movie, representing that the character returned to that place where he can rest.
I loved the cinematic filming and realism of the movie. The movie seemed to portray the War scene in relation to two mens experience in real time differently than any other war movie I have watched. I wish I could have seen more of the backstories related to the characters, but overall I really enjoyed it!
To be honest I am not the biggest war movies fan. Gone to the movie way too late with all awards in mind. So I can't say that I didn't have high expectations. But it blew me away. They say the movie is shot to look like a continuous take. And it does. For the first half of the movie I was just trying to spot where are the cuts. But eventually just gave up and enjoyed the ride. The cinematography is exceptional! Felt like most of war movies are too slow or feels too long therefore boring. It was nothing like that. The action, the score, the sound, the gritty realism of it all kept me on the edge of the seat. It didn't feel like a two hour movie for me. Though there is not much of a story but I didn't mind that at all. There is a mission that needs to be done and problems and struggles characters end up dealing with keeps the movie going. Didn't mind that characters weren't too interesting either. These are people in the middle of the war. So every little detail we get to know about the characters feels compelling. The acting of course is excellent. Very little criticism overall. Besides that it is not that historically accurate.
I went to see "1917" tonight as a sure way to cheer me up. Indeed, what better way to put a string of bad days into perspective than a WWI story! The Spanish flu - admittedly worse than COVID-19, as far as we know it - did not even need to be covered, since it broke out one year later and 1917 was horrendous enough in its own right.
Anyway. I was still irritated that the two "expendables" sent on a quest were consistently treated like s*** by the top brass (sender, receiver and the random motorized one with no situational awareness) and only got support from peers and mid level officers. That's way too predictable.
Then, there is the question of motivation : whether you're gung-ho or a reluctant follower, when you're expendable, you're not gonna expect fairness and the only question is how far you're going to push yourself and... yeah... why? Because you, somehow you're still a nice human being, in the middle of all that nonsense? Hence, you accept to be played and act more badass than the rest of the losers ?? Let's face it, most get mangled or killed, no matter their role or attitude. That's just l'esprit du temps (Or should I say, Zeitgeist? This movie could have been very similar, if shown from the Germans' perspective.)
Awesome depiction of horrific war scenes. Captures the audience very well. Great acting, tightly controlled and nicely executed. Loved the whole movie 
One take technique of 1917 brings you to experience the tension in the WWI. Best wish for peace all around the corner of the world.
This movie shows how brilliant technical aspects can make a movie very exiting and how brilliant shots can make the viewer feel being involved.
For sure 1917 is an outstanding cinema experience, but to put it in the same Category as "Dunkirk" or "Saving Private James Ryan", there is missing this intelligence of the content and the fact that this substance had to be sacrified for the long shots in this movie is the only thing which makes this film not perfect.
Despite those critics the acting of George McKay is outstanding so that all in all this film is recommendable.
"1917" is a Drama - War movie in which we watch two soldiers trying to deliver a message and stop an upcoming of 1,600 men because it's a trap. It's a war movie which is based on true events and shows us the true face of war.I enjoyed this movie because it had a lot of suspense and action. There were many great scenes that left me speechless and it was obvious that Sam Mendes did a great job on the direction of this movie. Regarding the interpretations, George MacKay who played as Lance Corporal Schofield was simply amazing and Dean-Charles Chapman who played as Lance Corporal Blake was good too.
1917, the most recent film by acclaimed director Sam Mendes (skyfall, American beauty), is a phenomenon to say the least. With a magnificent combination of excellent editing, superb acting and an outstanding score from Thomas Newman, 1917 is a rare example of absolute cinematic perfection. Like 2014s Birdman (A personal favorite of mine) 1917 has been, to my delight cut so cleanly it gives the illusion of a single take and like Birdman, it works exceptionally conveying a feeling of realism and desperation never before seen in a film. The movie is to my understanding shot entirely in Scotland, and Mendes makes use of the stunning landscapes whilst also creating his own sets providing a dramatic and even shocking contrast between the two. For example, The film opens in a luscious field full of plants and other wildlife, but very quickly as our protagonists enter the trenches you are introduced to the desolate wastes of No mans's land. Thomas Newman really does a fantastic job with the movie's soundtrack, which feeds wonderfully into the already immersive atmosphere. It strikes the perfect balance of being calm and soft in some instances, or extremely intense in others. Another thing that really stood out was the incredible sound design. Here, every gunshot has weight, causing each and every one to make you question whether or not it landed.
The cast is also brilliant, with each actor giving stellar performances and countless cameos from well renowned figures such as Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Mark Strong and Richard Madden. The story remains consistent throughout the film keeping you guessing and on the edge of your seat at all times, but some could (maybe) argue that there were some minor pacing issues, but other than that there is no more I can say. 1917 is without a doubt an absolute masterpiece, and I recommend everyone watch it.
I have to say, this movie was such a treat to watch. I could only imagine the effort that was put into the camerawork to keep the movie's one-shot feel must be paramount. The one-shot method definitely made a lot of sense for this movie. It really keeps us close to heart with our protagonist and lets the audience experience the horror of war. I can see that this could be a powerful tool in different occasions. Honestly, it felt like a video game at times. It was really cool.But unfortunately while this movie had finesse on the screen, it did lack in its writing department. My main complaint is with how they handled the protagonist and his partner. I really believed that the protagonist's partner had a lot in him that the audience could have learned about, but sadly was never delved into. Meanwhile, our protagonist really did not have anything in particular that made him interesting. Not that he needs a lot of flair, but the lack thereof, kind of hindered the movie's potential. There was room for character growth that would have made the protagonist interesting. But that growth was approached so quickly, that it really didn't had any impact whatsoever. This is why I think the potential of an intimate character growth from the one-shot method was wasted. Also, the ending was kind of lame, albeit was tense.
Caught 1917 last week, hard movie to watch but really worth it
Brilliant, visceral and poingnant. An exceptional film from start to finish.
The movie is non-stop thriller with actions and drama combined together. The camera, angles, music and most importantly the lighting at night was so stunning.
Never been so captivated by production design and direction in a film before. The best war film in years and the best execution of a one shot movie ever made. Although parasite won best director at the Oscars I wouldn't have minded Mendes winning and it for sure should have won production design. Roger Deakins cinematography was obviously exceptional. Anyone will enjoy this film and appreciate its craft.
What's good :
Acting is all good
I found particularly impressive the general feel of the film, uniforms and dirt, attention to detail made a very gritty realism.
Lot of cameo roles for well known actors.What was not so good:
I gather this was a number of stories told to the director and although I was totally absorbed for the whole film, they didn't particularly dovetail together.Or possibly it is the rather weak pretence (to link the stories) of just 2 men being sent to deliver a vital message.But very watchable film, I was totally absorbed. Not sure I would watch again but certainly enjoyed the film and was worth the price of the cinema ticket.
Lest we forget those that have fallen! I cant describe in words how compelling this film is. This is a film you watch and take in the devastating trauma these people lived. The cinematography of this film is the best I've ever seen! This is film that will be remembered forever in history and will always be the best we can get to reliving these horrific moments these people experienced in history most devastating war. Watch this film!!! You will sit there in silent as I did as the credits went on.
Uau.
This movie impressed me by the emotion it brought without needing the Hollywood drama or exaggeration.
It's impressive how a small story with such a simple storyline has made me so attached with the plot and the characters.1917 is about war times, but without the need for a intense hero which will bring peace to a continent in war. It can even show you that enemy is strong and more ballistic advance than the hero-country.The only only thing I found a bit "exaggerated" and perhaps a bit biased is how the main character is somewhat nave and hero-behaved, while the Germans are designed as all bad.Yet, this movie is a great movie, with a simple storyline but completely worth watching.
Film is very nice it has lot of emotions and we does not get bored will watching the movie
No words to describe that i was dying to see another movie like saving private Ryan .. this movie made my dream come true. This movie is how you make a war movie with heartbreaking moments.
First, I wanted to go to Call of the Wild with Harrison Ford, but I saw on the websit of the theater that 1917 was still projected, I had heard a ton of compliements about this film ,but I was reticent, because I thought hat the visual achievement was a pretext to win all those Oscars.I was totally off, the long-take is not made to show off the talent of Roger Deakins and Sam Mendes. it is an excellent way to accentuate the thriller aspect of the movie and the suspense of the war. Never in the movie you are bored, you are always at the edge of your seat. The all movie is subliminal, and I can compare it to Dunkirk in the way that character doesn't have a clearly identified personality, this serves the purpose of the director, Mendes wanted us to think that this film was just relating a random day in a low-graded soldier is life. The movie remains surprising. The sound is well-done, you feel that you are a companion of the corporal Schofield, like him you have no clue about was is going to happen, and when he is shot by an enemy solider like him you are tying to find out were the shot came from.I highly recommend this movie, it deserved all his nomination, but more particularly his wins in the technical categories.
Unbelievable that it did not win best pictureI just left the movie theater and yet I still feel like I am with the two main characters. Sam Mendes as director did an incredible feat with his "one shot" film technique. I have seen Parasite and I very much appreciated the movie and was not upset it when it won best picture but, at that time I had not yet seen 1917. 1917 definitely should've won best picture and I feel sad for everyone involved in that film as it was monumental. If you have not seen it go now, go right now!
The camera makes the story. technically brilliant. We're positioned like in a role playing game. Based on intense angels, slow moving pictures that forces the audience to watch and watch and watch, and be in the middle of the war.The story is slow narrated. You feel the war, but you never see the face of an enemy. Its lonely, quiet. The soldier with its mission. And just like this, the movie ends.
There were only two soldiers going from a location of their division to another distant division. The way is not a short one. And you don't know when it will be over. Several fights with the enemy are not full-scale batlles, but instead encounters with a single soldiers, who are still an enemy. When one of two friend wounds his hand and then puts it into a dirty wound of a corpse, I thought that he will be suffering from sepsis later in the film, however, he just washed it and put a bandage around it. Then when the bomb blasted in the tunnel, I thaught "here we go, I'll see action now". No way. It was just a stanalone explosion. The one who wounded his hand layed below the bricks and seemed to be dead, but his friend helped him. Later it was he who was killed by an enemy. Surprisingly several alied soldiers appeared. Summarising, the film was interesting and has suspense. Brilliant performance from Colin Firth.
Hopefully more will watch this and understand how horrible war is (Capt Bonespur) . I recently visited Hellfire Pass in Thailand and was moved to tears thinking about all the people who suffered so much there. This film did the same. It's a stunning piece of film and remembers what so many suffered in wars. Wish for better
I used to imagine what if there's a movie that is made one-shot? Or atleast make it look like a one-shot film. I am not a fan of history and war films but the online saying it being one-shot directed my attention. This movie is IMMERSIVE! The effects, the sets, the surprises along the way, are very GREAT and CAPTURING!Looking for more One-Shot or One-Shot Like Films like this in the future!
I knew going in I would like this movie. Historical/Historical Fiction are a favorite of mine. I did not realize that this would become on of my favorite of the genre and just how much I would love it. This movie captures what real soldiers of the time must have felt. It drives home the idea that these soldiers werent out their just looking for a kill. These guys were people with friends and family and just wanted to keep them safe and see them again. The camaraderie between Blake and Schofield can be felt from the beginning. The movie takes off from the start but you can tell these two men have a friendship that has been through the worst of war. The movies really shows that none of these men are particularly in this war for glory. They are here to do their job and get home. Except for one man (late in the movie). The dialogue throughout isnt some grand speeches or long winded monologues, its straight and to the point but in a beautifully told way that again emphasizes the situation. The main characters convey such emotion visually as well. It's almost like you can feel it yourself. The actual filming itself is amazing as well. They have these long continuous shots that really keep you on edge and engaged in the movies well. You literally follow these men's entire journey and it connects you with the main characters even more. This is definitely a movie that is worth seeing more than a couple times.
A different take on the war movie genre. The movie is well made, well acted and decently paced. Even though the genre is a little overcrowded, I would recommend watching this movie. Keep your expectations tempered though, as this one is not as good as the greatest war movies.
If your looking for a great all around movie, look no farther. This is one of the best war movies ever made. Film has very few mistakes in it and even the mistakes it does have you don't catch. The only complaints I could possibly have about this movie is I think Lance Corporal Blake (Dean Charles Chapman) got killed off a little to early in the film. It would have been awesome to see Lance Corporal Schofield and Lance Corporal Blake work their way through enemy territory together instead of it just being Lance Corporal Schofield. Other than that, 1917 is a amazing movie.
Wrapped up the last decade as one of the best films to come out in ages. Breathtaking and masterful. I saw it on a huge screen at the cinema and could barely blink. It should have won more than its 10 Oscar nominations, really. What a piece of work!
10/10 only for that ruined town lit up by flare scene. Truly masterpiece !
Personally I thought this movie was not great or amazing but i do think it is a solid good film. What I enjoyed was the way the story was told using the "all in one take" way of filming the movie. The acting was very good but some of the actors that were featured in most of the trailers such as Colin Firth and Benedict Cumberbatch had barely any screen time and only appeared in the beginning and end of the movie.Going back to the one take way of filming, it does make the movie a bit more dramatic but overall I do not think it is a game changer
I watched the movie, I haven't watched such a boring movie in a long time, and this is even war movie witch i generaly really like, so I think this is the most boring war movie in history.
I watched it expecting some action, something that would save it, but to no avail.It got those Oscars, for like a single shot, although of course they made transitions at least at dozen places, but they neatly masked it with editing tricks and movie record tricks.
It's boring when everything is in one frame, there is no dynamic, it is more immersive, but that would much more feet action movie, not this boring drama ... 4/10
Two minutes into this movie and it became hard to breath until the credits rolled. This movie was very thrilling and a whole lot of fun to see in the cinema. The sound and the music add to the anxiety of the film in a great way. However, this movie does have a lot of plot points that others have already mentioned that don't make a lot of sense and it's really hard to look past them.
Overall, the movie was fun but not one of the very best of 2019.
Even if you aren't into war films, 1917 is a film one must experience, because there is a simple story, sufficient and efficient, backed by an extraordinary technical accomplishment, which pretty much shapes and enlarges the cinematic experience to the highest degree. The pace just flows flawlessly frame after frame; to me it was intoxicating to have such a personal point of view, it certainly enriched the momentum, it made everything feel more tense, up close yet distant. I was very eager to see what would happen next and how the story would ultimately unfold. We don't get to see the known horrors of war in a crude fashion as it wasn't intended, but we get to witness glimpses of hope and tenderness which add to the emotional impact of the film. And I have to say those moments are necessary because something else is needed besides the constant suspense and continuous turbulent path towards the success of the corporates' mission, otherwise it's hard to feel something for these characters, given that it takes place in a constricted time frame and with a clear objective, that it doesn't leave much room for a film's usual way of progressing.The plot involves a race against time, the context is set, the story is rather simplistic, so the technical aspect is where the strength of the narrative lies. Sam Mendes and his crew were fully aware that they needed a particular way to tell their story so that it would enhance what these young soldiers had to go through by carrying out such a difficult undertaking.1917 is a phenomenal film, with much of its grandness being granted by its technical resources rather than its story itself; so, without its practical prowess would it still be an excellent film? I dare to say that it would not, perhaps it would be a good film, but not an excellent one. The premise isn't lacking in merit, but a film that spans across such a limited time frame can be somewhat difficult to handle regarding certain elements like character development (not that it matters at all in this film), emotional investment and an in-depth plot progress. And on top of all to make it as if it was one long continuous shot is an incredibly hard feat to achieve, but done excellently and cohesively in 1917.Whether you enjoy these type of films or not, whether you heard great things about it or that is overrated, it doesn't matter. Just watch the film and see what everyone else is talking about.
We went to see this film at the cinema last night. If you get the chance it's definitely one for the big screen.
I was captivated from the very beginning and, considering the subject matter, enjoyed it.
The acting was brilliant, and as for the direction/production - outstanding, Mr Mendes. I'm sure you've done your Grandad very proud!
The film takes you through a variety of emotions leaving you feeling very humble at the horror and sacrifices these men endured. I'll definitely watch this film again; probably when I need a little reminder of what those boys/lads/men did for us all....
Not a bad movie, basic story combines Saving Private Ryan and Gillipolli. Two classics. Two English soldiers set off to deliver an urgent message to cancel an attack, that is a German trap. Based on real events where the Germans retreated to shorten their lines, into a stronger defensive position. The two go through deserted German trenches, where they come across Germans who can't shoot accurately or will sneakily stab them if they try to help them.
War scenes are good but the film lacks depth.
This movie is intense, heartbreaking, mesmerizing, and at times stressful. The cinematography in this movie is absolutely BREATHTAKING. As someone who hates watching war movies, I'm so happy I went to see it.
Visual good to watch, well acted. But it was a long drawn out boring film.
Right at the beginning of the credits, the story is kind of explained because there is a WW1 vet mentioned as the source of the tale. The Director Sam Mendes wrote this movie with a woman who has the hottest looking pictures on IMDB for a writer. While she has written other movies and TV, this is Sam's first movie writing. The film is technically great but this explains a bit about why the story is a bit like Paul Bunyon, a General relying on 2 people to take important orders to the front lines army charging into a trap.This story is the reverse of Saving Private Ryan, instead of trying to make rescue a family member, this story sends both brothers into harms way.Story wise it is written for maximum dramatic effect. It accomplishes that. The direction by the director of Skyfall (one of the better Bond films in recent years) is quite capable. The story rarely bogs down and the film moves along pretty well. The actors could have done better if the story had been based upon a real story. Instead we get a toned down version of a vets embellished story which does not all the actors to really develop their roles.Considering the 2 guys in a hurry with the General's urgent orders, their detour into the bowels of the abandoned German trench and rat triggering the trip wire explosion makes little sense. The life saving is the reason for it, dramatic, but should not have been needed. Embellishing one character to make it more dramatic is the accomplishment.As much as the story is off, the film looks good and packs a dramatic power. That and the visual looks get me to rate it okay. So far this expensive film is a loser at the box office. Unless there are some scenes cut from the film to fill in the glaring gaps in character development, it's unlikely this film will break even until it hits DVD, maybe. There were 5 of us in the theater for an evening show.
1917 was a masterpiece, it showed you the true terror and feelings of being there in that war, and the losses of your loved ones. When Tom died, the protagonist had to keep going no matter what, and although I was heart broken, sobbing in the theater, I as well had no time and had to keep going. Every second that I watched, I was tipping out my seat, terrified of what was going to happen to your protagonist. Although you don't learn much about the protagonist or their life, you still wonderfully get drawn to that character and attached. Some people may view the women and the baby scene as unnecessary, but it really did have a purpose. When our protag is asked if he himself has children by the women, he has no response. We later find out at the very end he does have a family, but the reason we find out why he didn't explain was to think about his family is too much to bare. The amount of things he goes through is truly tragic, and when he finally sits at that tree at the end, your heart spills out. It hurts to have all those feelings at the end come out, and the story did have such a deep meaning to me. Thank you for being one of the best movies I have ever watched. Also mind me, the one shot idea was amazing. I do wonder if the protag did end up dying after the movie though. It wasn't like the war ended that very second. I do speculate that he didn't though. My reasons are because 1917 was based on the creator's father, and his hardships in war.
The visuals in this movie are amazing, the music score is epic, the suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat. this movie had me entertained the whole way through and was a really good watch.
I mostly enjoyed this movie however the more I think about the whole shtick of the film (being the fact it was done in 'one take' the less impressive it is. Some of the 'hidden' cuts are so obvious they might as well have been edited conventionally. For example multiple times the camera will clearly cut behond cgi elements or when the characters go into a dark tunnel and the screen goes completely pitch black. Also there is literally a cut to black halfway through the film so they didn't even stick to the whole 'one take' thing. George McKay is great in this and the rest of the supporting cast are also good. There are also some great set pieces. I enjoyed the film a lot, but the more I've thought about it the more the concept has soured.
I can confirm that it deserved all the nominations it got awarded
This film surpassed my expectations and they were high! The direction, sound, costumes, sets and pacing were spot on. The cinematography was astonishing. Great writing too. This film was on par with Saving Private Ryan. Not as much character development. But not required for the telling of this story. A simply spectacular film.
I always have loved war movies but never got to experience it in the cinema.i am glad i did it this time and took time to watch this visual treat.it was bit slow for me in the start but it paced steadily.cinematography is extraordinary to give viewers the realtime war experience.Emotional raw and haunting.
"Director Sam Mendes employs distinctive but extraordinary shots in the first person during the two-hour footage, which makes the production work in many different ways. Although it sometimes results too shaky, it is thanks to George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman's performances that 1917 preserves both sombre but optimistic tones throughout the montage. In short, this is an exceptional approach to memorialise the hundredth anniversary of the end of the First World War".We are somewhere in France during the Trench Warfare (1915 - 1917) with a depleted British Army; the atmosphere, alongside with the dialogues, can define by itself how was life at the front: scarce water and food, despair between soldiers to go home, endless weapons and corpses scattered on the floor, and so forth. Corporals Blake and Schofield are told to attain a severe/impossible mission despite not having any reinforcements. Before achieving this goal in sending General MacKenzie (Bennedict Cumberbatch) the infamous fallback letter, both privates must penetrate the frightful No Man's Land and experience horrendous life-and-death encounters in many places.Regardless of the silent second half, the absence of preeminent performers and the woozy experience of watching the film in one sole perspective director Sam Mendes and executive producers deliver an eloquent portrayal about surprising facts of the four-year global conflict. For example, both soldiers are bewildered by the superiority of the German trenches in proportions and in quality considering that historically they were far better equipped than the Allied ones which allow the audience the opportunity of a lifetime to analyse the condition millions of innocent citizens were facing. The result improves with some accurate shots at landscapes, underground warfare channels, entire villages pulverised, etcetera. I must acknowledge the last fifteen minutes of the film; it has been a long time since I spotted such an imposing ending. Countless emotions appear regardless of having reached the climax. What a masterpiece ladies and gentlemen!What amazes me the most is that despite being a World War film, 1917 does not give the impression in duplicating the ordinary details of previous same-genre releases such as Hacksaw Ridge (2017). Once Mr Gibson introduced a brief biography of Desmond Doss (the main character) he began recording some ultraviolent scenes as though you were spotting the most savage state of humankind. As an alternative, 1917 delivers some innovative procedures in creating a war film without increasing the brutal strength of instant classics as Saving Private Ryan.Congratulations![80/100]
Sam Mendes has truly gone beyond the call of duty in creating a story that will enthral you into a world long since gone. George Mackay and Dean Charles Chapman have perhaps produced two of the most fleshed out characters ever put to screen, due to their realistic relationship and emotive performances. How George Mackay wasn't nominated for best actor this award season is beyond what I can comprehend. In summary, it is film that any British patriot or budding cinematographer should see as it truly capture the essence of World War One like no other film has ever done before due to its unique story telling, incredible compositions and masterful cinematography. Roger Deakins you should hold
Your head high for the rest of your life.
Everyone should see this while it's in cinemas, a cinematic experience that will never be forgotten. Thank you Sam Mendes your dedication will he talked about for years to come.
Regard
J
Beautiful film. Everything was so... real. And the 'one take' was brilliant.
After the build up, expectations were high. Knowing this won an Oscar for Cinematography I paid special attention to the framing, lighting, camera movement...Upon viewing, it did not disappoint. Truly, a detailed work of art. Visually stunning. Reading the reviews on IMDB, I was surprised to see so much criticism of the movie. But after sleeping on it, indeed it was a visual masterpiece but full of plot holes.In retrospect, I'd put it on par with Avatar. Completely pushed the boundaries of visuals to place you right in the middle of the action. But the story was outrageous with far too many coincidences.Still, I give it a solid 8. Totally worth watching and I'll probably watch it again to see what I may have missed the first time around.
When Schofield is travelling with the caravan, there's an officer on foot who chats with him. I swear it was Stanley Tucci. But he'snoweher to be found in be credits. Did my eyes deceive me?
Continuing my ride on the post Oscar bandwagon, I watched "1917" a couple of days ago. I was excited because Sam Mendes and the great technical crew from "Skyfall" made it-my expectations were high. Having finished the film, I was truly moved. The one continuous shot illusion really made me feel like I was in the frontlines. The beautiful cinematography by Roger Deakins was smooth, Thomas Newman's score was daunting, and most of all Sam Mendes' direction was truly epic. For a film that's hyped for its technical achievements, I was more impressed by the performances by the actors. Lance corporal scholfield (played by George MacKay) was a great character, I was able to identify with his mixed feelings about going on this detail. The midpoint scene involving his friend's death was probably one of the best acted scenes I've seen in recent years. Overall, "1917" is truly a cinematic experience-go see it on the big screen.
Sam Mendes' war drama is set during World War I and very personal to him, as it tells a story his grandfather used to tell him when he was still young. Dedicated to Mendes' hero, this drama cuts deep when we join two young soldiers on a mission to deliver a message that could possibly save thousands of fellow combatants.
Filmed and edited as if it was one long take, the camera never leaves our main protagonists, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay), out of its sight.The use of the single shot was brilliant as it brings the viewer along in the trenches and further adds to the realism to the film. This gives the viewer a feel as if they are almost part of the mission, walking through the trenches and ducking under the fire of bullets alongside Blake and Schofield. I was surprised to hear that this was gimmicky effect from some critics, I felt Mendes nailed it brilliantly with the help of some fantastic cinematography. The set pieces were so realistic and detailed, a lesser director would've focused more on them but for this ride the camera never stops moving and it's a benefit to the film.
Roger Deakins' cinematography is once again breathtakingly superior to anything else you've seen this year, and for sure will be the one thing people unanimously praise. Sound editing/mixing, visual effects and production design are all outstanding. These are the things, people will remember. It is Thomas Newman's score that elevates every moment happening in front of you, intensifying the emotions brought by our main characters. And although MacKay and Chapman do a pretty phenomenal job at capturing the true essence of their characters going through a literal hell, it's the side characters with little-to-no screen time who steal their spotlight. Andrew Scott, Mark Strong, Richard Madden and Benedict Cumberbatch are checkpoints along the way, but man, do they impress with the few lines they're given.
There is no sigh of relief, no respite from the fear of uncertainty. They survive to move forward to face more uncertainty. This movie will keep you on the edge of your seat the entire way through, never giving you a chance to catch your breath.
1917 is without a doubt a technical masterpiece, that will inspire many filmmakers. It for sure is one of the better films 2019 has brought to the big screen, yet a bit more focus on the script could've made this the cinematic masterpiece of the decade. Nonetheless, I recommend watching this on the biggest screen possible and enjoy another fine piece of cinema brought to you by Sam Mendes. I am giving 1917 a 9.2/10.
A fully immersive experience. Long shots are used masterfully, and near seamlessly, through out the movie. The planning of such an endeavour is done meticulously by Sam Mendes the director, yet leaving enough space for the unplanned and organic performace of the masterful performance of George Mackay and the natural context he performs in. The different forms of natural 'motion' coming out of the unplanned and planned simultaneously tell you a story that couldnt have been told otherwise. Every motion of a head...the eyes...the camera...the light...the body stance...the trees that appear to play an important role in the movie...all together you lose yourself in. That rich experience and how it revolves around one character brings out even more personal details from each audience member's personal life that then complements the already vivid experience making it even more emmersive.In that respect 1917 is everything Dunkirk was not.Where Dunkirk was a low-res generic overview of a situation including a large number of people...1917 is a hi-res focused image of an incedent of fewer people shown through the point of view of one person. This brings out the gritty, heroic and agonizing details of war presented with masterful real time long shots that grip your attention relentlessly through out the movie.
First review ever i do on imdb, but i had to.... this is a technical masterpiece. Truly a great movie in each and every way, that words can't really describe.
Almost faultless. A moving, nerve wrangling rollercoaster of a movie, superbly and cleverly directed.
An absolute beauty of a film, enjoyed every emotional second.......
This movie could be described as a well crafted, well represented cinema. The highlight of the movie was the mood it created and was able to make us travel along with the 2 British soldiers. Was an experience.
I really enjoyed this movie, i think the story line was great and the acting was amazing, i think the one shot was talked about too much although it is what made the movie, even better as it replicate real time. the soundtrack was brilliant and Jos Slovicks wayfaring stranger should win an award.
Being edited to show one shot was such a great experience. Really love this movie! Very well done!
Easily the best war movie of the year and possibly the decade. The "one take" concept, while also a technical marvel, made a spectacle of the passage of time and distance in a way only a filmmaker with a clear vision and mastery of pacing could accomplish effectively. The plot felt purposeful, the stakes felt high, the actors felt talented beyond what their experience would suggest, and the climax had hearts pounding audibly throughout the theater. A small complaint is the film was a bit over-scored. The thunderous and booming soundtrack clashed with the gritty and visceral imagery. A tense but altogether quieter score would perhaps have had more of an impact but even the tracks used were not distracting enough to break immersion. 1917 is a movie that has earned its place among the year's best pictures and should be remembered as nothing less than a brilliantly made ode to the brutality of the first World War.
I've watched only a few war films (mostly Vietnam War and maybe one or two WWII pictures) so I can't really compare this to other WWI films. Having just watched this film, I'm glad I haven't watched any of the others because this was quite an experience. Everything about this film was epic-Roger Deakins' smooth cinematography, Lee Smith's seamless editing, Thomas Newman's great score, and Sam Mendes' realistic directing. The concept of a one continuous long shot really fits this film-it really felt like being in the frontlines of a battlefield. The performances, especially George MacKay as Lance Corporal Scofield was captivating. Lance Corporal Blake's death scene near the midpoint was probably one of the best acted scenes I've seen in recent years. It is definitely a cinematic experience that can only be felt by either going to the theater or watching it on a huge screen.
My husband and I saw this movie today. It was our Valentine's Day date. He chose it and I was willing to go but not necessarily excited. Now, "My feelings are quite the opposite." This is the best movie I have seen in the last year. Not only should it have won the best picture Oscar, but Sam Mendes should have won for best director.The complexity of this film - the work they did - it was more like a stage production than a movie. I'm in awe of the long takes and the actors being so constantly in close-up mode.The movie did not feel long. The real-time feeling had me constantly on the edge of my seat, never once thinking "how much longer" or "I need to go to the bathroom." We were experiencing the movie just as the real characters were.I really can't wait to see this again. There is so much that I feel like I missed. Of course the cinematography was out of this world. But, also the script was excellent. There is so much to notice and uncover in the dialogue and characterization.I feel certain we will purchase this film for our collection.
Yet another film among countless others that is a stunning piece of art in just about every technical category... yet leaves you feeling like crap after watching.For this reason, I don't bother to say anything and just give it a solid 1 out of 10. I didn't enjoy this film, it didn't make me feel good and I never want to watch it again. I suggest you don't watch it either, unless you wanna feel miserable.
This is not a WWI movie ,its more like a polished ,fake, made up, documentary that has major Hollywood puff added. This 1917 movie is not good, it has beautiful scenes of trenches and bunkers, that's it! What it dose not provide is a visceral,brutal,horrifying,bloody or truthful depiction of what it was really like (or even a half attempt) in the trenches of WWI, if that's what you want don't look here! Hell, This movie did not even try to convey the Three most terrifying words in wwi... "men prepare bayonets!
Also, Anyone saying this movie is like Saving Private Ryan only watched the first 10 minutes of the movie! Because after that 1917 really gets bad, I'm talking snooze fest bad! If anyone wants to watch a really well made, great WWI movie check out THE LOST BATTALION, it was made twenty years ago and blows this 1917 movie out of the water!
P.S. My Daughter who took me to see this apologized to me as we were walking out of the theater.
Matt
A decent war film that similarly to Birdman looks like it was filmed in one continuous take. The few issues that stem from that are that at times it begins to feel more like a video game cut-scene than a movie, and essentially limits it to being set in real time (with a lot of long walking scenes). The one-continuous-shot thing begins to feel like more of a gimmick than a storytelling tool at times. However the visuals keep the majority of scenes interesting and there are a couple of pretty breathtaking shots.
I spoil basically the main plot points of the movie in this review so if you haven't seen the movie I advice you to not read this.Not for the highly sensitive person. The soldiers walk and crawl through mud and rotting corpses that couldn't have been picked up due to constant fighting and there are crows pecking at human remains etc. Depicts War in it's most gruesome state in my opinion. Never been to war though but I have to say that this is what I have always imagined WW1 trenches to have looked like.Then the hiccups. Noticed only two though these aren't that bad in my opinion.
1. The dude swims/is carried away by the river quite some time and the message he carries is still readable in the letter? They must have had some waterproof ink during WW1.
2. Umm...the German sniper shoots the main character from a short distance so that the main character flies backwards. It's never told to the viewer what stopped the bullet from a sniper at that distance. Plus, can you survive flying down a flight of stairs and getting hit in the head? I assume you can so that just leaves the bullet. When stopped it. (Plot armor of course but let's be serious here)But all together a great movie.
Everything looks real, it was very good. I like the fact un known people were in the lead role. Story was unfinished, so many unbelievable things happened. He found a fresh milk( no poison in it, Germans even cutted the trees why the hell leave the one bucket of fresh milk), airplane just came to on them, some how they decided to save the enemy, all that ghost town houses, he found a woman hiding with the girl.( you cant keep baby that happy if no milk no breast milk. Baby would cry non stop and cant survive very long. Why couple of Germans was in the village? Where are the left of it? Why other soldiers didnt help the our hero, when they hear the shooting, why theydidnt give him any help 2-3soldiers withhim maybe, maybe some food!. First of all they shouldnt be survive from the bunker trap. Whole storie is big nonsense following each other. But; Dup, makeup, costume, decor-set, ar lt director, music ( mostly was very stressful because music was carrying that war stress very successfully) after movie mostly i think about storie and back stories of the people who plays in. This time i didnt have any emotional feelings in my mind. Just nice, good, technical pictures. In 1600 soldier he found the guy in 2 minutes .sorry scnerio was not good that reason 5
Was really looking forward to seeing this one. I felt the pacing of the film was very slow in places . Acting was of a high quality between the two leads. Some great set pieces that just about manage to keep this film interesting for me. In summary I would say it's just an average film, that I think the hype, made me expect a lot more from it.
As a theater kid/adult, I was saddened to watch this and realize it actually wasnt one shot. More like 8. It takes place over roughly 24 hrs so obviously they cant put all that plus explosives, CGI war stuff and action into one shot. There are obvious cut offs. With that being said, the storyline and entire film was absolutely wonderful.I am legit let down but not let down at the same time. I cannot NOT be let down with this movie. Only reason I went to see it was for the cinematography. I dont like war movies. BUT, the story was VERY good. They conned us on the whole "continuous shot" crap tho
Because I don't know what the heck "being shot in one shot" means, I merely focused on the story.
From the get-go I found it hard to believe two soldiers would be sent on a mission like this.
The guy gets his hand cut in barbed wire because he isn't wearing gloves. Really? No gloves? Then, it's filthy but never gets an infection. And appears to heal real fast. I thought he would get an infection for sure.
Then, the plane crashes into the barn, they run I. The direction the plane is going and then, rescues an enemy pilot from certain death. Then. One guy turns his back while the other guys gets stabbed. Thanks buddy. Why they didn't just shoot him is beyond me.
The night in the burning village, he grabs a soldier, covers his mouth and then lets his hand down? Really. Like this was one of those "good" Germans?
But the real
Kicker is when he jumps in the river, floats over a waterfall, grabs a log and floats to the shoreline, dripping wet. Yet later, when he finds the officer, the note was completely dry, as was he. Then it ends with him sitting under a tree and pulling out photos that are also I damaged. Wow. Some war.
They did a good job with the trenches and "no-man's land". I have a hard time believing the English were singing "Poor Wayfaring Stranger" as it was a spiritual. The depiction of the death and destruction was reasonable. The overall story was unbelievable, though.
Sorry Sam. Too many flaws to call this one "great".
Movie about nothing. So worth nothing. Don't waist your time.
Couldn't wait to see this thinking only Hollywood could  up a war story, i stand corrected. Soldiers didn't cry like this yeah maybe after the action died down or sitting alone thinking of what they went trough but not while its happening if at all, found it very slow and boring i left after 90 min and wish i would have left sooner,This is a movie for millennial men not real men
In 2019 I got quite confused as to what classifies as a great movie. I had high hopes for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood and got utterly disappointed. The Irishman was long and boring with actors that were doing the same routine for the 1000th time. And again with 1917 I don't get why people rave so much about it? 1917, like Dunkerk is not a great movie. Both movies are very weak and totally unbelievable.I admit, the one shot camera work in 1917 is nice, but it did not leave me with my mouth open. And then the story itself is very shallow, it's just not gripping or believable. The 2 soldiers sent on the mission lack depth and they look more like they're on a school trip. There's no fear, no emotion, no tension. It's all very shallow and unrealistic. Not once do you get the feeling they are on a dangerous mission. Even when one of them dies he seems quite relaxed about it and not panicked or worried at all. Oh well I guess I'm gonna die, too bad, but hey what can you do?The other soldier gets shot at a thousand times by both snipers and regular soldiers, but I guess they used the A-Team approach here, lots of firing but somehow he never gets hit...In the end we see a reprise of Saving Private Ryan, but not in a good way.I'm not a director or an actor, but I found this movie utterly weak.I haven't seen all Oscar nominees, but Joker should get it or any of the movies I still have to see. If this movie wins then I'll just give up trying to understand what makes a good movie. But 1917 isn't one... It does not even deserve the nomination.
I watched this film on Sunday and I'll admit I started falling out of love with it as soon as the plot was established as I found it hard to believe, but then multiple things kept happening which further took me out of believing and being invested in the film and into downright incredulity most of the time. Something which I could perhaps have got behind if the movie acknowledged its dreaminess, but as it wants to be judged as a "based on real events" type basis, I'm afraid its a hard no from me on believability.So those events, which others have remarked upon: Getting blown up and surviving without a scratch, but which destabilises a supposedly well built German bunker, Star Wars mine shaft jump, who milked the cow, why is that cow still alive, why aren't they concerned that it probably means someone is around, helping the German pilot (not the last time these two are shown to be terrible soldiers), I didn't know enough about Blake to care for him before he died and I was glad when he did because the German pilot stabbing a naive Brit for pulling him out the plane was what he deserved it was just stupid, the truck fulls of Brits turning up at that moment (more on that later), Schofield not jumping in the water as soon as the sniper starts shooting, Schofield briefly becoming an incredible soldier and hitting the sniper before going back to being a terrible one, didn't roll a grenade in through the sniper door, weird back of the head injury that knocks him out, but again doesn't kill him, then disappears, more bad soldiery running down the middle of the Main Street of the town that you know has Germans in, not shooting at the soldier that comes out of the fire, just running away and being missed multiple times from extremely close range, not got a lot to say about the baby scene except he briefly loses sight of his mission, why do the Germans seem to not be looking for him in that period, again trusting a German soldier not to speak even after the lesson of the pilot, I was fully expecting him to stab the other German, but then he just runs past him... the waterfall in the river, if its the same river as the downed bridge crossing couldn't he have just crossed it at the point he eventually gets out and skipped the town? how did the 1600 soldiers get across the river? Why are they set up in the field instead of clearing and holding the nearby town? At the singing scene why are there no sentries, you are deep in what was German territory a matter of hours ago guys! we've just seen there might be snipers, Lastly, holy cow thats an impressive brand new trench, are you sure you haven't got any supply lines? Because that sort of set up looks like it would have supply lines. Getting up out the trench... meh I was gone at that point.So on to the point no one has made yet. The movie constantly undermining itself. Lets go back to the beginning, a trench full of Brits seemingly waiting to go over the top at any moment. We go through no mans land, but the German trenches are empty, so actually we worried for no reason, and the men really should have been stood down, forward to the British trucks... WHERE DID THEY COME FROM? Did someone build a road through no mans land in a couple of hours? Up to that point we are believing our two soldiers are alone behind enemy lines. But actually they aren't behind enemy lines because the trucks are there and everything is so casual! its clear they know there are no Germans around, so what was the opening of the film even for? There was ZERO danger apart from a booby trap, they should have driven there. OK Why does Schofield run into the town? As I said earlier if its the same river its really stupid, but I could go with it being a different bit of river. Back to the singing scene, everything is safe again. The way those soldiers are, its as if they are behind the line (which they sort of are) not part of some advance.OK the final bit, we are told at the start that they must halt the attack before its starts to prevent a massacre as the Germans have amassed a far superior force (this is the premise of the film, then we are told the brother went off in the first wave, but here he is, back from the first wave, alive. So how bad could this attack and the German response even have been? It would have given the film some poignancy back if Schofield wandered round the aid station, found the other dead brothers surname on a dog tag, went off to his tree and wondered about the futility of war.
The strong point of this film: It's a stark reminder that Hell is on Earth and we humans are responsible for creating it. In that way, it is a successful and haunting movie.Another, more neutral way of describing the movie would be as a WW1 battlefield landscape tour. We're taken around in all kinds of environments resulting from artillery shelling; from the trenches, bunkers, no man's land, artillery dumps, destroyed farmsteads, burning town ruins, and ongoing assault and what else. The amount of engagement with these surroundings, or even depth of characters, is however relatively limited.There are two archetypes of "war movies": one type that tries to accurately portray military actions, and another that uses war as a backdrop for something else, such as psychological studies; 1917 belongs to this second category. Drawing comparisons, a similar recent movie is Dunkirk, but 1917 is far more low key with the threat often lurking in the background rather than asserting itself at every moment.Ultimately, I had been wanting more of an active take on the subject matter, i.e. WW1 military history, and it seems I will have to wait longer.
Brilliant directing from Sam Mendes and outstanding Cinematography by Roger Deakins, but I gotta give this movie a solid 8 because some scenes felt very much like "James Bond" scenes and not quite convincing for a World War I movie. But It makes sense though, it's the director of the Bond movies here, so that's why. And to cut to the most important and the most unconvincing part: The Letter. He goes through all that trouble at the waterfall and the waters and at the end the letter is not destroyed not a little bit and even the writing paint should have been disfigured after all that trouble at the waterfall. That scene ruined the realistic part of the movie.
1917 is undoubtedly a good contention for best American film of the year. Exceptional Direction and outstanding cinematography makes this film standout from other war films.The story and screenplay of 1917 aren't particularly unique when compared to other war films. More than story, it's the cinematography which tethers the whole movie together. Without the finesse of Roger Deakins this movie would've been just an other cliched war movie.1917 may not be my first pick for the best picture in oscars but it surely deserves its nomination.Story/Screenplay: 7/10
Acting: 8/10
Cinematography: 9/10
Direction: 8/10
Despite great scenario, cinematography, sound effects, attention to detail and historical precision, the plot is childish and a bit surreal. Nevertheless, much better than Dunkirk. Best film? Only because the competition is mediocre.
The movie was great, lack the depth Saving Private Ryan had, but in general it was a nice story and great cinematography work.I want to take a stab on something that bugged me though...30:34 minute into the movie, Lance Corporal Blake refer to the German soldiers as Nazis, Quote: "Nazi Busters!" however, the Nazi party wasn't existing till the begging of 1930's...
I was looking forward to this but I just didn't enjoy it. The story didn't grip me at all and I was getting bored watching it. I didn't particularly like the characters either. People throwing scores of 10's around yet again. 10 is perfect how can you have so many perfect films out there.
I have watched the movie "1917" @ cinema last night and here is my review
1. The movie is poor in Drama scenes which make you live the journey with two soldiers and suffer with them. I didn't suffer , i didn't feel sorry for anyone dying. Director doesnt push to feel pain while watching in war scenes he tried but not too much.2. A lot of talking scenes and i dont mind with that btw but those scenes should be perfect with well script writing & acting but this didnt happen.
3. Silly scenes while soldier runs away from germans to deliver a message and silly way the soldier died.4. Director tried to show his skills in camera , photograph & picture and made it but not affect with Drama which must be the main goal for movie as mentioned in point numbet 1 .
The cinematography obviously is stellar, but the aspect of this film seeming like one massive take is in my opinion more of a hindrance than an improvement. It's cool and unique in the beginning, but later on in the film (especially some combat scenes) there are instances where the film would massively have benefited from cutting to a different perspective.1. It doesn't help in this case that the film has only two main protagonists. There are movies that pull off suspense quite well with only a few central characters (I am Legend / A Quiet Place, for instance), but this one in my opinion does not.2. Because once you realise that since this film is one massive take, the only realistic stakes can be towards the end of the movie, (since if both of the soldiers fail at their mission early on and no new soldiers join their quest, the film can't really pan towards anything, so based on this, you now know that if the camera only follows those two around, its highly likely that at least one of the pair will survive for the near-entirety of the movie. And that's a big problem in a film depicting brutal war. (And if this didn't occur to you before, well, sorry :3).3. It further doesn't help that a LOT of the scenes where something meaningful happens are already in the trailer. Carrying on from point #2., if you remember seeing a scene of a protagonist in this trailer that the movie hasn't caught up with yet, well, well well.... Good films only show trailers of their beginnings, and don't show anything from the 2nd or 3rd act. It's such an obvious and easily avoidable pitfall, and yet so many films try to stuff everything in the trailer just to make people see the film, at the expense of the film itself. Having seen the trailer beforehand since it was practically everywhere, this was very bad. The plane scene, and the running-trench scene, were particularly egregious examples of this. For me, this film was like reading a book, having already skimmed the synopsis.4.When soldiers 'just miss' the messenger running in a straight line (not zigzagging) 15 meters in front of them, I won't lie, the film got annoying for me, that's literally one of the easiest shots to take. Shoot in the back, fin.Positives: Acting was good to very good, soundtrack, sound editing, and set design were spot on, and the story premise was decent. I truly felt for the characters, and I hear that it's based on a true story too, which is also cool. But Saving Private Ryan had a similar premise, however that movie was executed way better.Overall, I didn't feel like I had wasted my money. But I felt like this could have been so much better. For logical thinkers, and for those who have seen truly great cinema, this will definitely be overrated for you.
I've just seen 1917 and have to say I expected more than it delivered.It is not a bad movie but it's certainly not a great one either as many would have you believe.The acting is ok and the scenery convincing but the pace is often slow and some action scenes defy belief.For some to compare it to Saving Private Ryan is fancifull.It prompted me to watch the latter again reminding me what a great film it really is.Despite all the hype surrounding 1917 I doubt it will be remembered by many in years to come,unlike Saving Private Ryan which remains a classic of it's genre over 20 years since it's release..
Definitely on the must list for this corterie. I'm not a fusillier (or whatever BT calls hisself), but the weapons and kit looked smack on. The manufactured trenches were enough to give one the willies, and wonder how they trained all those rats. There's not a plot-it's all in the journey, er, quest. Characters met along the way make the story. In a series, protagonist (not hero) encounters officer fixated on his watch to get it exactly correct; officer incoherent and in tears, useless; officer too busy to be bothered. Best line from a major who knows the message is to not attack, 'Have witnesses when you deliver the order to the colonel, there are men who love to go on fighting."
The "one take" technique works ( fun to watch where the transitions are; they obviously couldn't shoot in one take), by the end of the trek, you're much more tired than with the usual scene breaks. Impressed by sequence in ruined city lit by falling flares; the shadows move realistically.
They avoid a blatant moral. The cumulative affect by the end if how stupid war is. No glorifying. Pathos avoided-well, the mother, baby encounter a bit much-and just enough sentimentality.
Quibbles: I'm no geography expert, but don't think there's raging rivers with tall waterfall in that part of France.
This film follows a very similar structure, and that is not a bad thing at all. It feels very similar to Saving Private Ryan, sans Omaha Beach. A couple of young lads get asked to do something deathly important... save 1600 men from death (including the one boy's brother). We then watch them traverse the desolate landspace between trenches, navigate an abandoned German trench, go gallivanting across the country side, sneak through a bombed out french town, and float down a river. All while occasionally having a gun fight, interacting with other soldiers, and viewing the infamous wave of infantry "going over" at the sound of a whistle. This movie is fantastic, and my only complaint is the same complaint that I have about most war movies... how is the protagonist not dead? He dodges a good two dozen rifle shots by running in a straight lie away from armed infantry men, takes a bullet to his helmeted head, and nearly drowns to death. He is lucky, sure, but wow. Anyways. Go see this movie. It is fantastic. The best WWI era movie I have ever seen.
Meticulous in everyway,with exception of when soles of boots were shown.Unlike reality when they would have been worn down to threadbare,maybe even with worn out holes,they were all new and fresh with tread.
Song that propelled movie,WAYWARD STANGER SOLDIER, is obviously based on old hymn,,' Goin HomeReminded me so much of Red Badge Of Courage,but true story and great in it's own right.
Meticulous as to details with the exception,showed conditions really as what the were,bloody,muddy,dirty,horrible, with the exception that when ever the soles of their boots were shown,either or dead bodies or people in prone position,the tread and soles were all fresh and new.Real world,they would have been worn way down.Also,the song Wayward Stanger Soldier appears to use the old Hymn.Goin Home as it's inspiration,maybe too close.
Reminded me of Red Badge of Courage,but great in it's own right
I was a little apprehensive going to watch this film after watching the trailer and knowing who the director was (I wasn't the biggest fan of the recent James bond film spectre).I was preparing myself for an overly dramatic and glorified war movie which in parts it was, but I must admit I thought they did a good Job! I liked how the movie was shot, it really felt as if I was accompanying the protagonists of the movie step by step. It conveyed a very intermate expirience between the protagonists and the viewer coupled with some thrilling and nailbiting cinematics causing me to pull off some grimising facial expressions throughout. I wasn't completely convinced with the acting, there's a particular scene involving Dean-Charles Chapman (lance cpl. Blake) that I wasn't too impressed with but maybe that's just me. I felt asif I was more emersed into George Mackey's character (lance cpl. Schoefeild) perhaps unfairly I found myself comparing their acting performances to Joaquin Phoenix's Joker as that was the last film I watched in the cinema xD they're two completely different films mind!Overall - If you don't mind abit of an overly dramatic and glorified war movie and enjoy an intense thrilling cinematic expirience it'll be worth your while getting a cinema ticket! It's gripping from start to finish with some great shots. I still rate Hurt locker a better war movie but it's in there with the likes of Fury, black hawk down and saving private Ryan.
This movie makes no sense. It is inspired by Lord of the rings where Frodo is given a task by the General and then he is helped on the way by prodigious characters.
The only difference is that Frodo dies and Samwise completes the task.
I have never seen a movie that challenges reason and common sense more than this one.
3/4 of the way through watching this rubbish. Thankfully I am a member of a great cinema in Heaton Mersey that sells decent quality wine at reasonable prices. Do not get taken away by the reviews this is like watching paint dry slowly. 2 hours I will never get back.
You know how you kind of hate Frodo (LOTR) for being such a wimp? Well instead of Frodo and Sam, this movie gives you Frodo and Frodo. Beta males getting the job done in WWI! An unlikely recreation, mostly because the movie is just scene after scene of two witless morons traversing across open plains, taking no caution or cover, chatting, giggling, and pulling each others hair like little girls while deep into unknown enemy territory. An incredible let down; don't waste your time.
They forgot to write a story. Yep,, that's it. They just forgot. No need to have a story. Is this review long enough now? Or do I keep going till the bots say, 'yep' that's long enough. Kinda like they though how short could we make the story to be a total non story...
I had high hopes based on the buzz, but after the movie my wife and I looked at each other and laughed. THAT'S what all the hype is about?? Yes, it was filmed in a one-shot style and that was pretty cool. But the story,....blah. Two grunts are sent on such an important mission...why? 80% of the film is just him running or walking. Then the guy get's killed by the German pilot...are you kidding me? How forced was that? That just proves how stupid these two were.1917 deserves praise for cinematography....but that's it. It's 10% of other great war movies. It's a movie that will never watch again...at least intentionally.
This movie was boring. I fell asleep multiple times. Dont get what the big deal is here? After growing up with Saving Private Ryan..Hamburger Hill and the likes...this movie was a snoozer!
How in the heck can this be nominated for so many Oscars?! It was such a predictable film. No real excitement. No character development. I didn't care if the characters lived or died. The whole importance of the film is garnered from how it was shot, seemingly in one take, but not actually. If you take that away, they could have made this a 60 minute movie. Tops.
I don't know what people see in this movie. It's not about war, it's about a superhero. Would not go about spoiling, but expect to see the grand-dad of John Maclain fight out in an unrealistic sequence of events. No real soldier ever went through so much stuff (let alone survived it all).They took a list of ALL things that could happen in a war and made one soldier experience them all, supposedly in one day.And political messages... There were very few black or Indian soldiers fighting in WW1. Sure, i never knew that they thought in it at all, before this movie, but come on- the fellow2 went through a lot as it is - you mean he'd be lucky enough to meet a balck soldier and an Indian soldier too?
Mendes should have made a documentary
Great to look at , nothing much else.Best film ? Do me a favour.
Worst movie story ever. Starts amazing but the rest is pointless. The stage is amazing though, but the story has no logic
A useless exibition of technique in a desert of emotion, a flat electrocardiogram, a collection of inexpressive faces, a story so predictable that the phone guide in comparison is a masterpiece. Good cinematography is not enough to save this ultra boring bucket of chamomile. Something not to be proud of.
Wow, just wow. I had such high hopes for this film, everyone was raving about this movie, some claimed it was better than a previous favorite of mine, Hacksaw Ridge.They couldn't have been more wrong. How is this movie getting such high ratings?Basically to sum up this movie every bad decision, lack of common sense, and failure to keep to your goal was made making this movie the worst war movie I have ever seen. What an embarrassment, this cannot be based off of a true story, no one is that stupid and was still able to make it out alive. Unbelievable, all of it was unbelievable, ridiculous, and idiots, our main character(s) were idiots in every decision they made. That is what made this whole movie unbelievable because no one could ever make that many poor choices and be voted on to make a movie. Awful, all of it was just so awful that my whole family has decided to forget this movie was ever made or that we even wasted the time to watch this mess of a "war" film.
Seen a lot of war movie filming was great ,could been better
100 years later, the movie is in color, but the story is still as black and white as ever.Germans are ruthless soul-less killers, laying booby traps to kill innocent people, stab their British saviors, are drunk and cruel killers.Their British counterparts are heroic family people, who help French maidens, want to safe lifes, sing folk songs in the forest, and live in perfect multi cultural harmony with their comrades from the colonies.Really?I advise books with a bit more advanced views, such as 'Sleepwalkers', to gain a little more balanced view on the history of the First World War.
The movie starts off very symbolically with what it is. Plagiarism. A bit of Gallipoli, a bit of paths of glory, a bit of saving private Ryan. In it's parallel with Brexit, is it trying to show that also Brexit is not original at all?
We soon learn that two boys are trapped in a place away from home. They don't want to be there. They long for the English pastures. Instead they are in hell. They had hoped for their leadership to get it done by Christmas so they can finally return.
Then good old English humor takes over, instead of sending some planes over with letters to the troops that are being drawn into a trap to warn them with, the army sends over those two boys through the German lines. Black adder goes forth again.
It becomes more serious again by showing not a single German can be trusted. They use all kind of trickery and evilness to liquidate those very decent boys.
Even if those boys do every effort, time and again, at the cost of their own well-being, to save those wicked Germans. It's David Cameron going to he EU again with a "fair offer" for a better deal, only to be stabbed. So now the English have no choice than to go for it alone.
In the destroyed orchards there isn't even any chance for cherry picking.
And the Germans are ready to meet the UK's reasonable demand with a scorched earth policy.
It does show that they are not totally on their own. A couple of token "commonwealth" soldiers are thrown in to prove that. Yes, those foreigners can even be useful to help the truck free itself from the mud.
After some fireworks and some highly entertaining running through ruins while being shot at, another type of continental show up.
A weak French woman. While the folksy British boy soldier knows quite a lot of French words to communicate, the rat-like French woman can help complete the conversation by replying with English words. But it shows a weak France ready to be violated again by the Germans any moment. And alas, our English hero can't stay and protect her this time. Obviously the brother of his friend is more important. Because who cares about a couple of thousand soldiers in WWI? The film shows that constantly that every part of the land is strewn by dead bodies, including French civilians who can only become victims.
Next, the hero is sent on an reenactment of The Revenant's river escape. He's not a simple boy anymore. But a survivor.
To prepare for the very touching ending, with a stiff upper lip, while still longing for the return to the wonderful island, some more comedy with the hero playing rugby with the first wave attack.
It has to be said that the ending is very touching. I almost shed a tear for the loss of the British (boy). The film is technically well made.
Eventually the conclusion is clear. There were only good reasons to withdraw and go go home.Then again, maybe the filmmaker meant something entirely different. Maybe he was just trying to make money on the sentiment that war sucks.
Or maybe the message was that milk is actually far better than some people think?
Mesmerizing first 30 minutes! But the weak story-line and weaker lead acting got me bored halfway into the film. It's a real shame.
I've seen many war movies and documentaries. This one in the end left more to be desired. Starts off strong but fizzles due to a weak screenplay and uninspiring lead acting. I just didn't feel enough for the characters when the movie would appear to be based on emotional character development. Furthermore, while cinematically pleasing, it lacked authentic scenes like the battle of Ramelle. Worth a watch however.
Supposedly this is an original story, but I have to wonder as the central premise was "Borrowed" from a far superior World War One film; 1981's Gallipoli directed by Peter Weir (Master and Commander), and starring a pair of talented young up and coming Aussie actors; Archie (Mark Lee) and Frank (some dude named Mel Gibson). Mark Lee pretty much dropped out of sight after Gallipoli, whilst Mel Gibson got ruined by fame and the Hollywood machine.Technically speaking Gallipoli isn't even a war movie, it's a Coming of Age story featuring the friendship between two young athletes. We don't see the beach-head at Gallipoli until the third act of the film, and the finale features Frank having to deliver a message to the trenches on the front line, to halt an impending attack that will result in the slaughter of hundreds of ANZAC soldiers, including his mate Archie. It is revealed that the purpose of the attack is to distract Turkish forces long enough for a British force to establish a beach-head on a nearby beach. It is also revealed that the impending attack on the Turkish trenches across no man's land, is no longer necessary due to the fact that the British forces landed with no opposition from the Turks whatsoever. Apparently the British forces are sitting on the beach, enjoying the sun and drinking tea. It seems the British commander is unaware of this and orders the suicidal attack to go ahead, over protests from ANZAC commanders that it is not necessary. Frank must evade obstacles and enemy fire to reach the front lines and deliver a message from an ANZAC commander to temporarily halt the attack until he can review the situation. Frank runs harder than he ever has in his life, to deliver the message to save his mate Archie and the lives of the ANZAC troops, who will be slaughtered if they go over the top. Does he make it in time? I won't spoil the ending for anyone who might want to see Gallipoli.(Modern audiences that need carnage and action sequences every five minutes, might find Gallipoli boring, and indeed while I would not call it slowly paced, the action and war sequences are only in the final act, the characters are well developed in the first two acts, so you do care about them. Mel Gibson proves that he was quite a talented young actor, before Hollywood ruined him. Loved Apocalypto though BTW).1917 features far too many WTF? moments that overcome your suspension of disbelief, and there is no real character development that allows you to care for the protagonists, or really give a crap whether they succeed in their mission or not. In contrast to Gallipoli, in which you see the initial rivalry between the leads, and their growing friendship as they head to Perth to sign up and join the war. By the time of the final act, you really care about Archie and Frank, and you're willing Mel on in his suspenseful run to save his mate and the ANZAC troops from being slaughtered for no purpose.
And to address my review heading - the "Single" take continuous tracking shot style, which of course was not filmed in a single take, but digitally edited to appear as though it was. What's the point? For example the single take tracking shot from Martin Scorcese's Goodfellas, in the scene where Ray Liotta and his girlfriend enter the club through the kitchen and make their way to their table. To produce a shot like this (without digital assistance) is incredibly complex, the choreography and logistics necessary for all the many actors, extras and the cinematographer to hit their marks precisely on cue, to pull the shot off successfully is mind boggling, and a testament to the talents of all involved. It isn't a matter of talent if you can stitch together many takes and shots with digital editing, to emulate a single take continuous shot. Now I am not some anti-digital/CGI crusader, these techniques and effects certainly have a place in modern films, and there are some very talented digital artists out there. Roger Deakins is a talented cinematographer, that I don't dispute, but to laud the accomplishment of the single take tracking shot digitally composited from many shots and takes, is in my opinion, a waste of time. To do it without digital assistance is where the talent truly lies, and I would much rather see modern directors and cinematographers attempt to do it "Live" without digital editing assistance. Spend a bit more time crafting a good screenplay first, rather than just thinking up cool shots and techniques, and this is where 1917 falls flat on its face.Is it really that hard to write screenplays that aren't full of plot holes and logic malfunctions? Is it really that difficult to write well-developed characters that an audience can care for and sympathise with? It certainly appears to be that way, I can understand that these big budget movies need to get as many bums on seats as possible to re-coup their enormous budgets and crack a profit. I also note that the hyperactive editing style of modern films, and the bombardment of imagery, panders to the short attention spans of modern audiences, who lose interest otherwise and find scenes that last longer than a minute excruciatingly boring. For example I recently watched an old film that had a scene that was over five minutes long, and I thought that this certainly wouldn't play in the modern era. BTW I am not some boring old fart who only watches old films, and can't cope with modern film-making. I recently saw Logan and was quite impressed, even though I am not a superhero fan at all, comics YES, Marvel and DC trash NO (Batman and Iron Man excluded, they're vigilante anti-heroes). And yes Logan had plot holes, but it wasn't enough to shatter my suspension of disbelief.Forget 1917, watch Gallipoli instead.
Those who have never experienced an exceptional movie (milennials, I'm referring to you), will likely dub this example of mediocrity exceptional, where, in actual fact this movie is just OK, nothing more.
I have not seen a more boring movie in my life, seriously, The plot itself was 100% predictable and simply idiotic - I could not believe they called this "a story". Acting was okay, I guess, since there was really nothing "to act".Also, I was excited to go see this movie especially because I heard it looked like shot in one take, and I am a big fan of "Children of Men". I was really disappointed. Compared to the long-take parts of "Children of Men", which were amazingly done, here the "hidden" cuts were more than obvious.I've seen many dumb movies, but this one really killed me from boredom. I watched till the end in pain, hoping for something to change, even just a little. It did not. I'd really give it two stars, but I'll go with one just because it was so much under all my expectations.
You have to admire the technical achievement and the art direction. It really looks like the actors are moving through endless trenches and battlefields. Some of it must have been CGI-ed, though you can't tell what. You soon forget you're watching "one shot". Of course it isn't one shot. It's just made to look like it.What lets the film down is an implausible, paper-thin storyline (the upper echelons of the British military were inept, but even they wouldn't have sent only two soldiers to relay a vital message calling off a doomed advance) that unavoidably glamorises WWI. It's as if the film-makers were still in James Bond fantasy land, and were primarily concerned with one question: what's exciting? Ooh, I know! A bunker collapsing! A plane crashing right on to the main characters! A chase through a ruined town spookily lit by swinging flares! A fall into a raging river! A ridiculous run along the front line just as the soldiers are going over the top, making such a thing more difficult to negotiate than the trenches themselves. Realistic this film is not. At least with a movie like Saving Private Ryan the action sequences were in service of an interesting plot that had some basis in fact. Here they're just shoved in for no good reason.To me, it's a shame. There must be a million actual, real-life WWI stories that haven't been told on film. Why didn't Sam Mendes tell one of them instead of going for this fiction?
Regardless of all the good reviews that the film took. i have been waiting for better story :(
A movie with such tremendous attention to detail should not have an outlandish series of coincidences. Worse, the actions of are two heroes are unlikely and Illogical to a fault at times.
Nothing new to say on any of the plaudits, except that context is needed. Private Ryan didn't get best movie Oscar, but was 100% better than this movie for lots of reasons, Tom Hanks being the main one. Dunkirk didn't get Oscar for best movie despite being 50% better than this movie. This movie didn't need to try and outdo Dunkirk on the musical tension, in fact, the village fantasyland suite was misplaced. Definitely an Oscar for screenplay, and best British cameos (lol). I recommend to see this movie, but after all the hype, and bearing in mind some of the truly outstanding war movies of the past 20 years, it didn't move me as much as others. And it didn't need to. It's a superbly executed narrative, and the final 10 minutes is worth the buildup. But be careful of the hype.
It has great presentation values and it succeeds as a moving tribute to the men who fought in the Great War, but as a movie, it doesn't really excel. There are many things I liked about it, such as the tension at the start, the depiction of life in the trenches, the artistic way the horrors of war are presented, the fact you're never quite sure what's going on in the bigger picture and it really does emphasize the pointlessness of the whole concept of war. However, the actual events that occur along the way feel too staged and don't flow into each other very well, and everything just kind of happens with little fuss. The acting and the music is good and the focus on the human side is more grounded because of the destruction, but I never felt the urgency, which is after all, the main plotline.
One must imagine Sam Mendes wanted to make this film after watching Dunkirk. Mendes not only makes a film similar to Dunkirk but also rectifies the flaws we saw in it. The cast would give you an impression that it's an ensemble but Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Richard Madden and Mark Strong just appear in very short cameos.The characters in the film aren't very strong but still George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman give commendable performances. Unlike in Dunkirk we do not see the stories of multiple characters here, the entire film is from the POV of lance corporals Scofield and Blake. On a technical level this film is absolutely stunning, Thomas Newman, Roger Deakins and Lee Smith deserve as much applause as Sam Mendes. It is bound to win Oscars in atleast 4 or 5 of the technical categories.The main plus point of the film is the way the emotional content balances the action. Mendes gives huge scope for the soldiers to vent out their frustrations and loss. One could just wish we had more scenes of the French nurse with Scofield.
I just got out of 1917.I have to say the one continuous shot thing, really does work, and I certainly never noticed the cuts. It's a simple story, but it's done in a way that you are always invested. I found myself looking out in the background for the enemy. There isn't much gunplay in this movie, so don't go in expecting a Saving Private Ryan. Although something happened and I jumped out of my skin. In fact I was on edge a lot of the time during this movie, you never feel like they are safe.The cinematography is great, I just looked and it's the same guy who won the Oscar for Blade Runner 2049. I expect him to be nominated again here. The acting (especially the two leads Dean Charles Chapman and George McKay) is great from all concerned too.I have a few gripes, the two main soldiers are pretty naive when it comes to the enemy, they are either trying to help injured Germans, or don't kill them when the have the chance!! Only for the Germans to try and kill them first chance they get.I'm surprised this won best picture at the Golden Globes, as for me it is not better than Joker, The Irishman or Once Upon A Time in Hollywood.I highly recommend seeing this on the big screen, it deserves it.
If there was some form of MVP award for cinematic achievements that had taken place over the last 12 months, I'm positive that many would agree a worthy winner of one such award would be legendary cinematographer Roger Deakins, whose work here alongside director Sam Mendes on 1917 is some of the most technically marvelous and creative that you're ever likely to see in the movie making medium.Sharing more in common with fellow war set thriller Dunkirk than more traditional war films such as Hacksaw Ridge or Saving Private Ryan, 1917 sees Mendes and his team of behind the scenes superstars and on-song actors unleash a rather simplistic men on a mission type race against time pulse racer that becomes something truely special thanks to the craftmanship on show that is of the highest order you'd ever hope to see.Much fuss has been made already before 1917 was ever released concerning it's one shot like execution, a magic trick of sorts that ensures viewers are gripped from the moment we join Dean-Charles Chapman's and George MacKay's British Lance Corporal in the muddy and body filled tranches of Europe in World War 1 as they are tasked with going behind enemy lines to deliver a life changing message to a certain death bound battalion of English soldiers.It's a directional and design choice that might on paper seem gimmicky or even distracting in theory but Mendes and Deakins employ it in such a way in 1917 that is captivating without ever being in any way, shape or form a decision that feels cocky or unwarranted.There are many moments throughout this cinematic marvel where your jaw will lay agasp at what you have just witnessed, a frantic run across a battle field or foot race through a German occupied broken cityscape just some such occurances, but it's never pulled off in a way that takes us out of the plight of the two Lance Corporals as they face a seemingly insurmountable task.As the two likeable central figures, rising stars Chapman and MacKay both excel in what are both likely to be star making turns and their respective performances are the unsung heroes of the piece that would've been a piece of creative genius but nothing more had these two performers not been able to bring Mendes heartfelt and deceptively emotive tale to life through their important roles.They are at the end of the day both impressive cogs in a feature filled with some of the modern era's finest cinematic construction, a crowning achievement for a director and his cinematographer who have both enhanced their already glowing reputations with this unforgettable exercise.Final Say -A war set thriller that is alive with energy, heart and technical wizardry, 1917 is a mind blowingly good cinematic creation that will be a deserving Oscar king should the cards fall that way on Hollywood's night of nights. A must watch on the biggest screen available to your viewing needs.5 milk filled canteens out of 5
Best war movie ever ? Everyone's got there own opinion . Certainly the best since SPR surely .
It's just mega and ticks every box . The only lull was he bit where he's talking to the French woman with the baby . That gave me the ideal chance to go for a comfort break . The great bit parts played by so many top Brit actors give it that added genius . All action thrill ride .
Sam Mendes , you've done it again !!
This film, much-hyped and ballyhooed, richly deserves the technical Oscars it received; the cinematography is truly, starkly beautiful, and the "one shot" approach to its filming is interesting, if gimmicky. Its biggest flaw, however, is its failure to engage and move the viewer on an emotional level.One is painfully conscious of an ironically heavy-handed effort at understatement, and this effort succeeds too well, to the point of outright blandness. The acting is quite wooden-you can almost hear the directorial instruction, "more starch in the upper lips gentlemen; remember, this is the British army!" This flatness persists throughout the film, preparing the viewer for a payoff that never comes. When there is a scene that is meant to be emotionally powerful, it feels forced and insincere.This movie borrows heavily from "Paths of Glory", from the long shot through the trenches to the wispy, meant-to-be affecting song just before the attack, both of which were far better done in the former movie.In short, like too many movies coming out of Hollywood today, heavy reliance on the technical aspects of moviemaking while eschewing the transcendent has resulted in the production of "a beautiful corpse".
Engrossing film from the start. The cinematography, the production, the sound editing were great. Acting was credible. A few spots make me take one point off. Definitely worth seeing.
This grandpa is a terrible liar, the story sucks and is so unrealistic!
This journey lacks depth and strength. "1917" is too long, too padded, and too shallow. The characters are not interesting or well developed, and neither are the cameos of well known actors. A disappointment.
The hype and hullabaloo surrounding this film leaves me feeling isolated - because I really didn't like it, even though I wanted to. Yes, it was convincingly filmed; yes it had moments of genuine shock (not many, actually), and yes it had a decently realistic ending instead of sewing matters up a la Hollywood - all to the film's credit. But all this was let down by the script and storyline, which I found hackneyed and predictable. It felt like plotting-by-numbers, reaching for old tropes - not because old tropes are true, but because they were convenient, moving matters along in a way that seemed to disrespect the critical viewer. Some examples:
The set-up was too loaded and trite to take seriously and in any case borrowed a fair bit from Saving Private Ryan (I'm avoiding spoilers here).
Soon after this, sniper's bullets clearly come from the 'wrong' direction, presumably because it made for a more exciting attack scene. I found myself coming out of the moment to mutter, 'Hang on...'
Dwelling so abnormally long on the 'milk' episode told us all way ahead of time that we'd be witnessing something pretty moving later on. And so it proved.
The discovered route through enemy lines seemed bizarrely unlikely, (again, I'm avoiding spoilers). 'This is the way!' they shout. Really? On a reasonably flat battleground? Again, I was forced out of the moment.
And that waterfall scene. Niagara in the French countryside. Who'd have thought?
And so on. I could go on. I already have. As I say, I really wanted to like this film but felt let down by convenient blurps that moved the story along faster but left me feeling cheated by the end.
Stay away from this junk of a film and save your money and 2 hours. I have never seen such an implausible wannabe action-fantasy in my life pretending to be a war film. It can only be a war film for the video game and marvel generation. A poor person's WW1 film. Watch Kubrick's 'Paths of Glory' instead - a real masterpiece verses this pile of garbage from an overrated filmmaker.
I realise this is a true story and respect the real life horror of the Great War. However, this just appears to be Sam mendes having a massive........ego trip, about doing it all in one shot. Show the story Sam, tricks are for kids
This movie is surprisingly not as good as the hype. I struggled trying to come up with a rating because there are certainly great parts of the film. The cinematography, score, and actors are all great. The screenplay and directing not so much. Just as in the Revenant and Jarhead; I heard what a great movie but was sorely disappointed. A movie has to be believable; what I loved about Saving Private Ryan was you felt like you were experiencing it and forgot that you were in a theater. The movie lacked flow and believability. There are too many Hollywood "Come on...that's ridiculous" moments too be listed as one of the great war movies. It will win awards on hype instead of truly being great. It's good to see once but you'll probably never watch it twice.
Sam Mendez you had me immersed in your story for the first 10-12 minutes. It really was a great opening to the movie. The one take shot was a fantastic Idea. Unfortunately as another reviewer pointed out you made a Marvel war movie. You could have replaced our heroine with Daniel Craig and I swear it could have been a WW1 time travel James Bond movie. I never appreciated Dunkirk the way I was supposed to but after seeing this I need to go back and watch it. The conclusion is it's a fairytale war movie with beefy over the top (no pun intended) set pieces and no substance.
Visually the movie is great, I would give 8/10. But the story feels like it's been told so many times before. Me and my friend watched it and couldn't stop comparing it to Lord of The Rings, where we also have a story of two friends going through hell to deliver something to save lives (in 1917 it was a message). I definitely recommend this movie for its visual effect but I wish the director had a better story to tell.
Why the huge hype? clever use of camera etc,but just rather dull. To many contrived moments, just to fit.
It was all rather slow and forgettable. I think the scenes in Wonderwoman add more power and show the state of war.
Technically beautiful! Well filmed, great stage, great actor but huuuuge lack of a story. Midway through it becomes even a bit boring.
I just felt like it was more or less the Private Ryan's story with less energy and emotions.
Good entertainment but not the movie of the year
All the wanna be luvvies who are tripping over themselves to give this a high score are the same who look at a banana skin accidentally left on a gallery floor and think it's art. Making one long scene is clever. And I mean FULL STOP
The characters had nothing about them, the mission was bizarre given the importance, there are so many weird things thrown in to pad the story and historically challenged.
Just for one, the accuracy of the weapons was terrible but these soldiers could fire from the hip to within inches, the main character gets shot, falls down stairs and just has a cut at the back of his head. He crosses a river only to end up washed down it, back on the other side, a few minutes from where his random 5 minute truck journey dropped him off and is right at the end of the mission. I could go on about a woman and baby (and somehow talking to her???) drunkard not being taken out and a miracle cow. Imagine how you felt when you first saw saving private Ryan, now remember how you felt when you thought you had at least won a tenner on the lottery only to find out you didn't put it on. Guess which film this is.
The most pathetic movie from Sam Mendes.I think this movie is over hyped by some people since Sam is one of the best Director.
Everybody is talking about the technic, cinematic and details. Well, those were perfect. But those aren't make a film what it is.
The characters doesn't build during the movie? There is no emotions in the film and you won't be able to connect to the hero.
I've waited for this movie to come out, so poor, such a miss.
This might be the best movie I've seen this year. Definitely need to see this on the big screen. Overall it's a very sad pointless brave thing war is.
I suspect many of the positive reviews are not impartial or by reviewers who missed Full metal jacket, Dunkirk, Platoon, All quiet on the Western Front (1930) etc etc.One of the biggest problems with this film is the two young protagonists. Both boys are very forgettable and lack any kind of gravitas to carry a film on the big screen. As a result it's very hard to care about them and their video game like quest. Though this problem is not entirely their fault.The script is run of the mill (didn't people curse in those days?).The director doesn't employ necessary dramatic close ups to break the mundane midshot. We don't effectively see their blood, sweat, tears and the horror or determination in their eyes. Also the panoramic shots aren't particularly panoramic. The scale of the battle fields and surrounding areas are poorly filmed. The cinematography as a whole wasn't up to the scale of story.At the end of the film one gets the sense you've just sat through a long YouTube video of mice in a maze with a few fx thrown for fun. However, this film could be a very good two part BBC miniseries.
I was bored. The story was not interesting. The script was shallow and not believable. No character development. The one shot filming that worked great in Birdman, becomes tedious here as very little actually happens.The movie's cinematography, special effects and camera tricks are cool to watch for awhile, but not for 2 hours.There are many great WW1 movies. This one is not and hopefully won't be recognized as one. See : All Quiet on the Western Front, Paths of Glory, Gallipoli, Lawernce of Arabia, Grand Illusion, Sergeant York, Farewell to Arms and many others are far better movies than 1917..
It would be a shame if this boring movie becomes "the standard" for WW1 movies above the many, many movies far superior.
It wasn't bad. It was good. But why did they spend so much money on a soft, boring, unbelievable script? Such a waste money and talent.
Overrated, boring and not worth for the bes motion picture, that's for sure. Dunno what people are pining about.
Please,save your time and watch a good movie. That one is full waste of time.
While 1917 may have its attributes, it has a serious problem. Although based on a true story, it deviates so much from the story that the film is more fiction than fact. As a combat veteran of two wars and a military historian, I find the deviations ridiculous and misleading. If viewers believe that the film is realistic reenactment of a battle during WWI, they are badly mistaken.As the reviews stated, the story was about two soldiers who were ordered to send a message to a regimental commander whose Brigade was deep behind enemy lines and was about to lead his troops into an ambush that would have caused the loss of 1,600 men. The messengers were to tell the commander to call off the attack. One of the two messengers was the brother of an officer belonging to the endangered regiment.In fact, there was only one messenger and he was not a brother of any of the attackers. Furthermore, the actual orders given to his company commander were,"Should the enemy counter-attack, go forward to meet him with fixed bayonets." Nothing about calling off an attack. The messenger's task was to locate three other companies and pass on the order. That necessitated him traveling through no-mans land which at most was a mile deep.As the film tells it, the Germans withdrew to set up a trap. In fact they withdrew to eliminate a large bulge in their lines. From Feb. 23 to April 5 of that year, the Germans were moving their troops to the Hindenburg Line. The Germans withdrew along a 27 mile front and caught the British completely by surprise. As a result, the British were very cautious in moving forward which negates the film storyline that the Brigade was isolated. In fact, the entire British line moved forward, not just one Brigade. The story of 1917 takes place on April 6 (which incidentally us the day the Americans entered the war.)The first noticeable flaw in the film is that the messengers are told to proceed southeast to find the Brigade. That would have sent them behind their own lines. Because the messengers had to travel westerly through their own trenches to reach the point that they jumped off into no-mans land, they had to be at a point at the easterly end of the bulge in the German lines. So they had to travel in a northerly direction. Also, they figured it would take them at least a day to get to the Brigade so the Brigade had to be located a considerable distance from the front lines. The day was cloudy and there was no sun or landmarks to guide the messengers and that was compounded when nightfall fell. However, in the true story, the messenger was in fact, much closer to the missing companies.Otherwise, the film realistically depicts the WWI battlefield conditions and it does the best job of depicting a man dying from a wound that I have seen in any film. But what keeps this film from being a best film is its failure to realistically depict the manuevers involved. It could have been told better.
What can I say it didn't do it for me. I can appreciate the cinematography, but the action was minimal to nil, which is okay if you feel a connection to the characters. Also there where to many "goofs" which took me out the experiencing. Wait for it to stream or watch "The Journeys End" instead.
Mendes has just won the Directors Guild of America top award but I can't see why. This is a pretty ordinary WW1 drama. telling a noble story, but with an unnecessary stylistic gimmick. A lot has been said about the long take shot but these add nothing to the drama and in fact make the film look like playing a video game, partly because of the tendency to have the narrative divided into staging posts (e.g. the farmhouse, ruined town, etc.). Some lines in the script are achingly bad and at times the acting is poor. Deakins photography however is excellent as ever and not certainly because of the long takes.
It seems like the writers and director had something to prove by making a movie that appears as if it were filmed as one continuous take. Mission accomplished.But the movie provides only a mediocre experience for us, the audience. It offers nothing new about war in general or WWI in particular. There is very little that it has to say; in fact there is hardly a story beyond the obvious one of two corporals in a race on foot to get a battalion to stand done. And it gratuitously drops in A-list actors who barely add any value.And, yes, it has the look, feel, and engagement of a video game.If all of this sounds good, go see it.
Once you get over 1917's one single gimmick, you realize it's not that great of a war movie.1917 is a one-shot film based during WWI. The plot is rather simple: deliver a letter across enemy lines or else thousands will die. It's straightforward and the action moves quickly.One area that I appreciate about this film is the respect it pays to WWI. Special attention is given to the hell-like conditions that the soldiers had to face. 1917 does an excellent job showing how the Great War turned normal men into savages. It also did a great job showing the life-and-death conditions that people faced.But, there were times I felt disconnected from the film. Is it from the dizzying speed the camera moves around? Is it the lack of character development and cheesy dialogue? Is it from the rather cliche plot? I felt no real connection to the characters until close to the end. Shame that this movie was missing that special something.1917 is a good movie to watch. Yet, I wouldn't call it too memorable. With a bit more polishing, this could have been a much stronger movie.3/5 or 3.5/5. Average or above average. Sam Mendes was missing that special something to take this movie to the next level.
Watch it for the amazing camera work, great sets etc. Apart from that it's that that great and quite boring. Full Metal Jacket + One Shot...Now that's what I want to see. Some of the continuity doesn't work e.g After they leave the trenches they go straight then take a hard left. When a plane crashes next thing we know there are a platoon of soldiers to the right of them that seem to have been there all the time.The acting of the two leads leaves a lot to be desired too.Oscar Hype & Bait. San Mendes is overrated ever since the DULL best bond ever Spectre.Long shots are impressive but not a good movie they make.
As a movie portraying a small slice of WWI ... probably a 9
As a movie for entertainment ... for me, a 6. Why?Because scene after scene was nothing but walking... walking for minutes on end through trenches ... walking for minutes on end through a field... walking up to a tree... walking walking walking but wait! A little running thrown in ...Was the story compelling? Enough, yes. Was the acting good? Yes. Sets and production? All fine. But the overlong scenes of walking were SO long they took me out of the story. I felt like story time was being consumed unnecessarily.At first (in the first long walking sequence) I kept thinking ok, it's gonna end now... then when it didn't... and didn't... and didn't... I thought ok, they want to make sure we get the experience of WWI and these soldiers in their trenches... how it was for them... but it went on for way too long in too many scenarios throughout the entire movie, not just in trenches, but everywhere they went. This movie would have been 45 minutes shorter with the walking cut down in each case to clearly make the point, while not making it overbearing.I would not recommend this movie to anyone but a WWI enthusiast for that reason.
I was really looking forward to watching this but was so disappointed with it well before the half way mark. The decision to make it look like it was shot in one take was the wrong one. It did not make me feel like I was in the movie at all. In fact, it was the polar opposite. There was no emotional investment for any of the characters either. We've seen this movie done 100 times before but also way better. I will never watch this mediocre war movie ever again as it was devoid of every single reason we go to the movies in the first place..... Entertainment!
I gave it a 5 for the musical score and the fact that it was just a middle of the road war movie. Mendes may have had an emotional attachment to the story, it's a pity none of it transpired to the screen.
Everyone has said it all. Technically this is incredible.But... I don't really go to movies to be blown away by their technical prowess.It matters, of course, and I fully appreciate what was done here with the "one take" aspect of how it was filmed. It contributes to the environment the audience is living in. Someone else wrote it as "immersive" and that is as good a word as any.But I guess what I go to moves for in part are characters and story. And in this respect maybe the film falters a little. I don't really feel like I ever emotionally connect with the main character. It could very well be that the way he acted his role is intentional. It's like he's only 80% there, and the remaining 20% he is hiding or protecting. Regardless, I just don't really feel like I ever know him or (to be honest) like him all that much. He is to be sure a hero and does amazing things. But... I'm just left kind of cold by him.Anyway, the one character I did totally connect with is played by Andrew Scott. Yes! Andrew Scott! Our friend Moriarty from "Sherlock" who plays a relatively minor character named Lieutenant Leslie in this film. He's maybe on for 5 minutes. I would love a movie about him. He's fascinating and where the main character is only (and at best) 80% there, Lieutenant Leslie is 150% there. His presence is that enormous.This is not to detract from our main character. The actor who played him is in nearly every scene and I can only imagine the physical and mental challenges he went through to make this film.The music is good but at times became overwhelming. I don't need the score to help me know that we're in an emotional scene. I am mindful that I may be in a minority here. Most of the time the music was not intrusive, but at times it was.I wanted to mention there are some scenes that visually disturbed me greatly. War is awful and WWI and the trenches was just... awful. I did not get the feeling that there was gratuitous violence, but to be honest I wish I could unsee some of what I saw.Still, I'm glad I saw it. I recommend it.
This film reminded me of the movie "Dunkirk" . Very long, wanted to love it but I could have waited and watched it at home.
Underwhelming. The "single shot" might be technically brilliant but it's distracting and didn't really work for me.
The plot and characters are weak - barely believable at times.
It's an "ok" film but don't believe the hype.
Much has been made of 1917's cinematography which, through very skilful editing, makes it appear that the film is shot in one continuous track. It's done extremely well, although there is a very clear, deliberate and unambiguous break slightly over halfway through.1917 is the latest film from director Sam Mendes, who co-wrote the script with Krysty Wilson-Cairns. Its story is of World War 1 lance corporals Schofield and Blake (George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman) who are commanded by General Erinmore (Colin Firth) to run a message to a battalion of 1,600 men to call off an attack the following morning which will result in their massacre.The film takes on the character of a portmanteau piece as the two messengers run into each episodic scene before moving on to the next one. Some of these scenes work better than others. And it has the drawback of too many shallow cameos from actors unable to bring any depth to their part. The one exception to this is the excellent Mark Strong as a gruffly benevolent and politically-savvy captain who clearly knows the best way to keep his men alive is by being supremely efficient at his job.The plot has soap opera elements to it - lance corporal Blake is told his brother's one of those about to be slaughtered. And there's plenty of contrived happenstance; suspension of disbelief is sorely tested more than once. The lingering doubt that the mode of delivering the message isn't perhaps the first option that would come to mind is never really dispelled. But perhaps the film's main failing is its emotional sterility, only at the end is it moving.Sir Sam is a director of deserved renown whose two recent films for the Bond franchise, Skyfall and Spectre, are amongst the best of that canon. And his skill as a director is shown in 1917; despite the negatives it remains a film with some great merit. I feel Sir Sam has simply allowed technical wizardry and the bait of Oscars to take precedent over storytelling. He's a good filmmaker. He has more good work inside him.
What a waste I mean u wait for so long for some action that never arrives ,such a bore fest nothing like saving private Ryan or even pearl harbour at least that had action in it
Get more wemon in these roles who aernt just standing within ten feet of an open house. At one point (when the st. Bernard was running on the treadmill) (in a cave) a woman flipped the light on in there saying: are you well, do you need five of my pounds. Now im not jesus or anything, but please, give it a chance for the fe_male gender. They could of at least showed a women in a double sized ford f-150 that had a 3 pound hand.
A very strong film about the events of the First World War.
Definitely worth your time.
One of the best films I've watched.
10/10
1917 is an incredibly fun ride and is a roller coaster for your eyes. The visuals are incredible and all the acting as well. Where 1917 falls down is it's very thin plot. Everything happens as a coincidence and it is very structured, like other movies with strong storyline's. Still worth seeing no the big screen though, I'd still recommend watching it.
Only thing unacceptable was that the short and fat one died. It should have been the tall and skinny one.
Sam Mendes greatness lies in making a plot that virtually has no story so enjoyable and intriguin, even with a dose of sentiment.
This film, overall, was decent. There were a lot of great moments throughout the film. The visual effects were excellent, and performances were great.The structure of making the film feel like one shot was interesting. At first it worked really well, but then as the movie progressed it became more and more noticeable as to where the cuts were, and it felt more and more pointless.The story works, but the main problem is that it is too basic. The entire film is essentially about two people and one goal. There are some great action scenes as the two people went through struggles, but overall the story could've been improved. The soundtrack to the film was fantastic, but the movie seemed to rely on it too much.1917 is by no means a bad war movie. For me, it was an entertaining experience and I don't regret watching it. Unfortunately, it is nowhere near a masterpiece and I expected better.
Great movie to look at, beautifully shot by Roger Deakins and well directed by Sam Mendes. But it is not the masterpiece they want us to believe.I was struck by the sililarities with that other recent war epic "Dunkirk". Ofcourse that was in WWII and based on a real event, but bear with me on this one.
1917 and Dunkirk were highly praised on their release and 1917 will undoubtedly also rack up some Oscars. Both movies are made by high-profile directors, Mendes and Christopher Nolan for "DunKirk, and both movies are shot in the ultra-widescreen Imax format. They are also both serious British flagwavers. Also both stories are full of plotholes (remember the Spitfire in Dunkirk that could fly without petrol).
But my main concern with both movies is this : where are the bloody Germans ? In "Dunkirk" we see a few German planes from a far distance and in the very end a few shadowy German soldiers. And it is almost the same in 1917 : we only see dark flashes of them, even the downed German pilot is quickly disposed of (after he in true Hun-fashion has stabbed one of his British saviours). What is it then : can't we have a fight, would it be to gruesome on the giant Imaxscreen or is it maybe Hollywood won't allow these days German troops in full regalia on such a big moviescreen ?
Im slightly disappointed after watching this movie.. i loved the cinematography and the aound track but there is no story in 119mins!!!!!!! only someone running for the whole movie and he is stupid and has the greatest luck!
Every detail, every sound, every moment makes a big impact on your memories while watching.
Great immersion thanks to the sequence planes, a good tension management and an excellent setting, but the film does not allow you to connect with the characters at any time, which are simple and underdeveloped archetypes together with an artificial, predictable, forced script and with a simple and typical structure, putting the show before the background.
High marks for setting props. Not really taken with the lone character focus midway through the messenger mission.
Having been infantry with 1st MarDiv in South Vietnam in 1968, I was able to relate at times to the characters but this story was a bit too much Masterpiece Theater 'feel' for me.
Breaker Morant and Platoon caught me more than '1917.'
Sam menedes did an incredible job and the actors were great
A movie should not be rated on just the one amazing aspect it had, which is the one long cut directing and great cinematography. The movie is long, with characters you can't believe will make an impossible dumb mission that you will never care for or feel any emotion for. The soldiers themselves plenty of times don't even act like they're at war but trying to make friends with the other side. Just a waste of time, money, and sense.
Expected alot more going by reviews on here. Did not enjoy. Poor acting I thought with terrible story line. If you want action you will be disappointed.
The whole movie is about two young men sent on foot, in enemy territory, by a General, to dangerously attempt to give 1600 men a message when all He had to do was to have a message dropped from a plane(s) - that were already there. I realized that about 45 minutes in and stopped the insanity. Two hours of an implausible mission that could have been done in minutes.
This is one of those "emperor's new clothes" movies that everyone seems to think they have to say they like.
Well, I hated it. What a bore-fest. I didn't realise that during WW1 it was so easy to walk about in the open having a chat - and that's pretty much all that happens.
A total waste of time.
The movie was a bit disjointed. While the visual effects and the scenery was stunning I didn't feel that the emotional connection of World War 1 was strong enough. Some of the scenes were a little far fetched and the reality of war was a lost towards the middle. The plot was well structured. I only wished the flow was as strong as the plot.
Here's my review.
1..Cool story
2..Terrible actors
3..I was rooting for 007
4..Dragged on and on just like Dunkirk
5..Landscape/settings/effects were pretty good.Overall I think the actors ruined the movie IMO.
LOL 50 MINUTES IN DUMMY DIES BECAUSE HE TRIED TO HELP THE ENEMY HAHAHA ,MORAL OF THE STORY YOUR SUPPOSED TO KILL THE ENEMY NOT HELP SAVE THEIR LIVES. SO THAT'S WHAT YA GET....... DEAD !!!
First of all, I thought the new way of filming the movie was very well executed and will now be copied many times. The issue for me was by using this technique throughout the whole movie, it took away from other aspects on what it could have shown.
Maybe I went in with the wrong mindset, I wanted to see some action and depiction of trench warfare. What I got, wasn't that at all, in fact apart from a 20 second shot towards the end there was no warfare.
This was not in the same league as Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers, they were full of drama and action. 1917 was simply dull in comparison.
I'm sorry to buck the trend, but I was very disappointed by this. I found it a bit too fantastic. I don't doubt the story had an element of truth, but in filming it became a bit ridiculous. I also struggled with the video game style filming. Constant camera panning made me feel quite sick.
Big stars are just cameos & a chimpanzee could have played the main character as he was on screen with not much to say in a lot of scenes.
Great quality film for artistic purposes. For the general public.... worst and most boring film I've ever watched!
Yep, if you're tired of watching a bunch of ill disciplined Yankee grunts running around and shooting at everything that moves then watch this.
Mendes managed to capture the suspense, the intensity, the horror, the madness & the camaraderie of this crazy, horrific episode in time called WW1. I certainly don't want to spoil anything for anyone who have not seen this movie, but it is, by far, the best war movie in quite some time.
I'd heard how fantastic this film was, so I was expecting to, if not like it (I don't normally gravitate to grim war movies), at least be moved/impressed by it. Not so. I felt let down - the script and lots of the dialogue were just so painfully corny at times - eg back of the truck, grumpy sergeants, and no more so than when the beautiful (of course) young girl and child are discovered in the ruins (just time for a quick nursery rhyme); it lacked any real tension, I think because of the gimmick of breathless continuous shooting; it was unrealistic - the damsel, finding your way through the ruins of a bombed out city at night, no map, no compass, etc etc, surviving the river/waterfall in spite of it all; then that piece of 'luck' happening on an 'open-air concert' at the end. Apart from the lead, the acting was no more than average. This movie was all about the set and the photography - grimly effective. Very disappointing and certainly not Awards material
Story is idiotic. The way the two soldiers go about their business is laughable, no logic at all unless the lads are complete morons. Props are stupid e.g flashlights that exceed anything that existed during that time. Acting is not good so casting gets zero points. There are much more idiotic and infeasible things to this movie but see for yourself, by all means.
Have just got back from the cinema having watched this film.
I had made up my mind on it at least half way through.
When it had finished I immediately turned to my partner and asked what she thought. Her reply, not much.
Our opinions were the same.
Nothing happens in this film
I found myself not really caring about the characters
No way would I recommend it.
A far better film about the same event is Journey's End.
Stay home and watch that one on Netflix
A pretty good war movie, but it failed to make me care enough about the leads or their mission, and this was largely because the implausibility made it impossible to take it seriously. Too many narrow escapes is bad enough, but I could not get past how that letter and those photographs survived what seemed like a long time in the water, even if you allow that he himself survived it.
I watched this with my son and was so bored I couldn't get through it. I called the "plot" changes before they happened. How can this be called the best motion picture of the year? I'm baffled. I didn't find it remotely interesting. It was filmed well but I except way more out of a film. This was just a poor attempt at telling a heroic story.
This was as Boring with virtually no battle scenes as Dunkirk. I take it back, Dunkirk had more action. Hollyweird can't do a good war film anymore. Always an overload of unnecessary drama.
What happened to the Sam Mendes, from works of substance like 'American Beauty' and 'Road to Perdition' to somewhat juvenile, empty of soul films like '1917', where deep characters and real emotions are subverted for theme park rides. Here, of all subjects to use for a joy ride, "the Great War" is a vehicle for an action adventure, fantasy-esque quest, that not only sheds little about the horrific war itself, but sanitises the sacrifice of young men by a corrupt elite on both sides of the war, who profited heavily from their demise.In this film, the enemy is portrayed as inherently evil, cruel, untrustworthy, duplicitous and blood thirsty, and the allies as innocent, trusting, honorable and kind, which is reminiscent of the worst excesses of war propaganda filmmaking, complete with cardboard cut-out villains. What '1917' decides to ignore to its folly is that at the end of the day, it is ordinary people fighting ordinary people. Brother against Brother. Sister against Sister. That's the folly of war and something great director's like Kubrick nailed to the mast in their war films!But you might say, "Elcid, this is a popcorn action flick, you got to switch off your brain mate, enjoy the ride...", yet even for mindless action, I never felt at the edge of my seat, and all of the meant-to-be tense and gripping scenes felt forced and contrived, and you could see the actors reacting to cues rather then immersed into Sam's world of make believe.There are two truly great scenes in 'Children of Men' (Alfonso Cuarn), both near the beginning and near the end, where the action takes place in one shot, and here the veracity of both the characters and their environment is so powerful that you truly feel immersed and haunted by the scenes, and the narrative benefits from the continuous shots. In interviews, Mendes says he was inspired by these scenes, but it seems by trying to emulate them, he has missed a trick - they add no value to the story apart from the gimmick of spectacle! The result feels like you are watching someone else play a video game (*Spolier incoming*), where the main protagonist has 9 Lives and reaches number 8 before he succeeds to the final level boss - an underwhelming encounter with Benedict Cumberbiatch (sic) who says "f*** o**" and the audience f*** o** too, to recollect on a lost 2 hours.The score by Thomas Newman is also misplaced and pass - think a Hans Zimmer rendition of Lord of the Rings'. The only redeeming feature is the cinematography by Roger Deakins, yet even here, it inevitably draws comparison to the superior cinematography of Emmanuel Lubezki ('Children of Men'), and whilst it is interesting to purely admire the technical achievement and continuous mis-en-scene in one shot (with hidden cuts), I think such a scheme ultimately ends up stealing the emotional veracity from the characters since we never really get up close and personal to them to see their eyes - their windows to the soul. Thus, the cinematography of Deakins feels constrained and on rails.There is to my knowledge only two great audio-visual works on WW1 and they are 'Blackadder Goes Forth' (TV Series) and 'Paths of Glory' (Kubrick), alongside great films on other wars, from 'Full Metal Jacket' to 'Apocalypse Now', 'Catch 22' to 'The Battle of Algiers', to name but a few. 4/10.
I didn't know logs and trees were such a problem in WW1. A fallen log was used as a plot device at least 3 times, maybe more.
I went for the novelty of seen the single 2 hour tracking shot, you can clearly see the "tricks" used to accomplish this illusion. It just ended up being a distraction to the story. Those who say the cinematography was great, I guess. They failed to give any scale to the battlefield, they needed to pull back and show us the world. Most of us don't know what WW1 looked like. My wife said it felt like we were watching someone play a video game. And she's right. When the main character was shot by the incompetent German sniper, Someone In the theater even said "game over!" Unrealistic?Two men caught in a huge explosion in a tunnel, one is literally buried under what looked like at least 1 pound of rock, stones dirt, and rubble, emerges with little more than dusty eyes. And which point he wants to go back. I'm not sure why, he is clearly immortal and a super human marksman. When he locates and shoots a German sniper that is in an elevated covered position who is firing on him. I guess he could have got lucky and lucky he is. Bullets cannot seem to hit him. Except the one that hits him in the back of the head. But that is cured by a French woman with a fat starving baby when she touches it with a rag. Then of course Germans are all evil, stupid, drunk and immoral. Even when they save a German pilot from burning alive he repays them by stabbing the best character in the gut. Because Germans have no honor, never did, especially the pilots. There are so many stories that have gone untold about WW1 they choose a fetch delivery quest to an NPC that looks like Benidict Cucumberpatch.
This movie is hands down one of the best war movies I have ever seen.
The cinematography is so extremely well made, and the acting of the protagonists is spot on. Deserves an Oscar. Very memorable piece of art.
Okay first of all it's better than 1 star but as of the stupid, pathetic HIGH rating had no choice but to try even it out with the worst rating possible. This film is slow, full of plot holes, characters that no one could like, not enough action, sort of like a made for tv Sunday night film. High Drama crap. As for the plot itself well Spielberg did it a million times better. This is artsy-fartsy type crap, that the snobs an the critics lap up.
If you're a war movie buff this movie is not for you.
Was expecting an amazing movie since this is an 8.6/10 rated movie but I found it very slow and lacked action considering that this is a war movie. Poor storyline and over acted by some of the cast. The Mise-en-scne and narrative extremely poor
Worst movie of varun sir, I'm a huge fan of varun sir. (I'm lying) but I only like varun sir's 2 moviesinception and titanic
It's getting so painful scrolling past blatant movie employees reviews of movies,the language is copy and pasted by writers who clearly cannot talk like regular movie reviewers and the constant barrage of 10/10 is a sure sign the review is not worth reading.
It's become common now to give 2 stars because people give 10 to what is likely a 7 movie to balance the equation so people have to scroll endlessly for a genuine review of what is actually in the movie.
1917 is a decent movie it's a 6.5 .....we don't all go with our Oscar list ready to chew I off.
This film has been given great reviews but personally I dont get it.Sure, the settings feel very genuine and the acting is good I guess but the story is really thin and if this move turns out to win an Oscar for best movie then it has truly been a slow year in terms of quality films being released...
Sam Mendes, so disappointing and unexpected. Good image but so badly done facts wise. Night becoming day like pressing a fading switch, a dead that became grey just after 2 minutes, a guy being shot being shot right after he left a entire battalion like 3 minutes ago who didn't came to support...a fail!
1917's rave reviews have heralded the visuals and the storyline as elite; even the marketing campaign has gone to great lengths to demonstrate how the "one-take" effect of the film as a masterful piece of cinema. Unfortunately, this doesn't mean the mediocre storyline really ever comes together; massive set-pieces and inspired lighting aren't enough to buoy the jumbled cameos and obvious cuts in scenes, which ultimately hurt 1917 more than they help. Some of the film is beautiful, but you were bound to hit the target once or twice considering how much Sam Mendes threw at this project.The story follows two British soldiers across uncharted territory, given only 24 hours to deliver a vital message to a general on the warpath. To me, this is an uncomplicated storyline that war films need to deliver on more - there is potential for drama, thrills and every setting imaginable - but writers have a habit of wanting to convolute the story. The plot does lean heavily (and not in a convincing way) on coincidental events to help drive the drama and tension, which does create a plot that verges on entirely incredulous.All of the sets are immaculate, constructed to utilise the weather and the light to create an atmosphere. The sets must have all been built to preserve the idea of a "one-take" film, and this is 1917's downfall. The camera will follow the subject for 20 minutes at a time, navigating every obstacle that usually interferes with a shot, only to then pan behind an easily avoidable object like a rock. Why commit to this technique if you aren't doing it properly, or if you could do a better job with a few cuts? It baffles me that Mendes didn't realise cutting infrequently (such as in Birdman) would make a better-looking film than using unnatural frames to keep the one-shot integrity alive, and this sort of naivety is exactly why 1917 isn't as good as some people think.War films, in my opinion, should use unknowns for all roles apart from the leads. If you are trying to tell a story, it should not rely on A-list actors to prop up exposition, otherwise you lose the anonymity of war, and instead end up with a mismatch of famous faces. 1917 is guilty of this, with cameos rammed in left and right: Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Richard Madden, Andrew Scott and others all appear for less than 5 minutes each, but break all realism when they rock up on screen. What is even worse is that they weren't given the roles because they required great acting talent to perform - they were just the most well-known people looking for a job.By the end of 1917, I wondered if the plot really mattered - it becomes somewhat lost amongst the flashy visuals and the blaring soundtrack. It wasn't a more considered work than other war films, and I would rather watch Saving Private Ryan or Beasts of No Nation than this frankly over-celebrated piece of cinema.
If satire sends up reality (apart from closing on Saturday night) this effort may be said to build up satire. Apparently taking as its jumping-off point the sketch in Beyond The Frings that contains the line 'Right, Perkins, what we need at this stage of the war is a futile gesture ...' this movie begins with two squaddies being assigned a probable suicidal mission of speeding on foot through recently vacated enemy territory to warn a commander - telephone lines are conveniently down - to call off a planned attack that will end in wholesale slaughter. Wisely director Sam Mendes has gone with unknown albeit competent actors for these key roles which helps us to remain focused on the task rather than familiar/favourite actors playing at soldiers. That's it, really. A lot has been made of the 'one-take' technique which is, of course, ultimately fake, and was done much better by Orson Welles albeit for merely the opening of Touch of Evil. It's certainly watchable, has already BEEN watched by hundreds of punters and will almost certainly BE watched by hundreds more. Where there's life there's hype, and hype is a wonderful thing. Don't be surprised if there's a gong or two before it's finished.
I get it. Praise and awards for single shot etc etc. As a war film many have gone before way superior. The acting is satisfactory but by no means demanding or outstanding. The storyline is inferior to Private Ryan and generally tame. The special effects whilst real and not computer generated are sufficient but again not noteworthy. I would love to give film a higher score but simply can't. Had it not been for the single take etc etc I doubt this film would have created any attention. Art for Arts sake. Judy on the other hand well deserves its place in this year's awards.
Had very high expectations of the movie but lost interest very quickly. I have to agree with the content other reviewers place here who are also not blown away as others apparently are. Bad plot and story line.
Basic characters and story structure with a little bit of expectation subverting. The "one-shot" technique used comes off as gimmicky to me. I like how they actually made the soldiers look young like they should.
As a film that has gained much fanfare and a handful of prestigious Awards to date (Golden Globe and (BAFTA awards for best picture and a host of technical awards among them), '1917' has naturally aroused Oscar interests soaring high. So what's new? And what are the bets ? Following review of the film is offered from these perspectives.Here's a story of two British soldiers Tom Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and William Schofield (George Mackay) who are tasked to deliver an urgent message from General Erinmore (Colin Firth) to Colonel Mackenzie ( Benedict Cumberbatch), battalion commander of 2nd Devonshire (where Blake's brother Joseph Blake is a Lieutenant), in a battle zone across French border during World War I. The message that they carry is to stop attack on a German fleet - which is on a tactical withdrawal to counter attack - in order to avoid a big showdown and heavy bloodshed.Would seem to be a fine enough plot for a 120 minutes movie, which has its real time-span of over a day. The time-span would also justify the 'single shot' appeal that the movie presents. Obviously, there would be a lot of action, fighting, fireworks and adrenaline infused in between that would provide the movie ticket's worth. Not to mention of the superior cinematography (Roger Deakins of 'Blade Runner' fame), the matching background music (Thomas Newman) and the mesmerising editing by Lee Smith (remember it's single shot?).But then, sub plots and dialogues are what makes a worthy screenplay. Here Sam Mendes (Director himself, who had the advantage of the story being told to him by his Grandfather) provides some twists and turns to the story, so that the film does not appear too plain and stale. So we have a trip-wired bunker coming down, thanks to a rat - but nothing happening to our protagonists; an aircraft dogfight, which ends up with the shot down German aircraft falling straight into the feet of our watching young soldiers, and Blake getting stabbed by the German pilot when he tries to save him (why? especially when the Geneva conventions are still far-away?); Schofield collecting a flask of fresh milk from the scene, only to be handed over to the French woman Lauri (Claire Duburcq) who was caring an unknown baby; a bogged British vehicle which is salvaged thanks to efforts by Scofield; plenty of missed shots by German snipers; finally, Sho' managing to get across to Colonel Mackenzie and stopping the attack; and Sho' being able to meet and convey the sad news of his brother's death to Lt Blake.But sadly, the subplots manage to neither further nor enhance the plots. Some of them seem too deliberate - for example, the milk and the coincidental baby scenes, which had little or no impact on the movie's progression. And the dialogues are too insipid, carrying little or no punch. The film doesn't leave an impression on you, either as an adventure or an anti war saga. It ends up as wasted emotions and efforts, inspite of the great audio visuals that the movie presents (thanks to its team of technicians).So what about the Oscars - well, your guess is as bad as mine!
1917 is overall a very generic war movie. The only redeeming quality is the "all in one shot" thing, which at times was able to build up tension and make for an interesting and unique shot composition. I would say that the first half of the movie uses it to its advantage while after a certain point of the movie everything went downhill, with lots of cheesy moments, plot conveniences, weird character choices and overall not being able to keep up the tension. But the second half at least tried hard with having some nice shots and sets.The movie also feels more like a typical action flick, instead of a proper portrayal of WW1. I mean it does a better job than ridiculous movies such as "Hacksaw ridge" or "saving private ryan" do with WW2, but it has this typical feeling of "character making it out against all odds" and if someone dies it must be an elaborate set piece, which feels just so unlike real WW1, where the horror was rather the unseen enemy, the mustard gas, the constant artillery shots, the rats keeping you awake at night. It doesn't have this realistic feeling of WW1 like "All quiet on the western front" or maybe "Paths of Glory" has. It also doesn't help that a year earlier the very nice documentary "They shall not grow old" came out which gives a by far better vision of WW1 than this movie could ever do.I am also not a fan of the idea of trying to make a movie in only 1 shot. I didn't like it in "Birdman" and I didn't like it in any movie I have seen it in since. There is a reason movies have cuts in it and its not only a technical one. A story normally needs things like: different sets, time in between scenes, scenes following each other with vastly different tones to build or reduce tension, etc. Ofc you could make a movie that still is enjoyable to watch even if it has only 1 shot, but is it difficult to achieve? Yes.
A rather character driven story like "Birdman" only suffered from it and the idea of everything being one shot was not an artistic vision benefiting the movie, it was basically the gimmick that tried to sell tickets. The idea of one shot was utterly pointless and made the movie even more boring.
"1917" however seems to be the best example of a movie that tried to do the "one shot" thing, since it actually achieved something with it. Like I said before it did a decent job of creating tension in the first half. The problem is 1917 would have been better if it had a few cuts in between some long shots, but it seems even more in this movie that the " one shot" gimmick was heavily used to promote the movie rather than being a much needed addition to the film. Oh and just to point it out, the advertisement of just being in one shot was also a lie because it cut to black half way through the movie.So in conclusion the movie has a pretty interesting opening sequence and later some great sets, but story wise its boils down to a generic war drama which cant keep up the tension all the way through to the end. It involves many cheesy moments and overall nothing really challenging or anything to wrap your head around. Its entertaining though, and at times very visually pleasing.
Awesome cinematography can't make up for an impossible, unbelievable, and not that great of a story.
All the sets look too staged. It's crap. Watch if you're bored no other reason
I sort of enjoyed this ... more or less. Interesting story, good production values and intense at times. I wasn't there but at no stage did I get the impression that this was an accurate representation of what it was like to be there. Maybe there was too much unspoiled green grass, where I had an expectation of seeing a battlefield or bomb craters. The contrast between fighting scenes to surreal peaceful country landscapes continually nagged at me as not to be relied upon. The overall impression I had, was having someone else's idea of humility packaged in such a way, to mask over what I sensed was a compromised movie. Compromised in the sense, that here is a story that might have been profound, were it not for lots of ideas that I suspect were half developed.
Long one-
I will call it a film and not a commercial movie cz it is not for minting money but to make you feel the vibes of the events captured by camera. It will put you in there right in the middle of the scene and you feel watching it first hand. I mean a movie should be like this. The frames captured by the director is seriously incredible. The depiction of the dead soilders and the dog, the isolated war zone and the protagonist struggle is beyond words. To be very clear, it is not a war story. It has a very simple and short story to tell, but the way it has been told plus the background music with the amazing acting pushes it in a totally different league. Tbh this one has become one of my favourites after Joker and Dunkirk. No surprise that the film has received so many nominations. Hats off to the director Sam Mendes.Short one-
JUST GO AND WATCH IT, guys!! You will not regret it. :)
For me this is a solid 7 out of 10. It achieves my main objective of not having a contrived storyline whilst indulging in too many myths which surround the war. It was gritty, superbly shot, decently acted and had some genuinely beautiful moments in. There are only a few bits which let it down. And it is only a few. Some of the action sequences were a bit too unrealistic. And some of the dialogue was a bit awkward. But overall these things detract very little from what is a solidly good film in a war which is seldom touched by filmmakers.
If you're going into this thinking you're going to get an all out bloody war story, you're going to be disappointed. The story is great, and the way it was filmed is awesome, but as far as action, you kind of saw it all in the trailer.
Story is filled with tense moments, and a twist I didn't quite see coming.
Overall, it was enjoyable. Sad at moments, but war isn't a happy thing. Kinda felt like it needed something more, but can't put my finger on what.
1917. Beginning was excellent, but lost its way in the middle.Too many as if bits for mine, that and german troops making stormtrooperw look like expert marksmen.Do see it on a big screen with a good sound setup as the visuals and audio are excellent.
I was so excited to watch this after all the good reviews. And although it's a good film I can't say it's the best. It lacks something but I can't put my finger on it. It has a lot of emotion though. The scenes are good and I especially liked the detail of the fallen.
Gallipoli x Saving Private Ryan 0.2 That is all you need to know. Kudos to Sam Mendes for his two "one shot" format. I can hear Stanley Kubrick rolling in his grave. A most excellent, triumphant piece of cinema. Well done!
May be a tad overrated. I don't want to give any spoilers but if it's going to be seen it has to be in the cinema. If you're looking for a film that you're taken aback by the cinematography that looks realistic this is it. That's about it in my opinion.
Don't go in expecting a drama like Saving Private Ryan or Hacksaw Ridge
My Review- 1917 my Rating 10/10. NO SPOILERS other than what's in the trailer.I'm amazed that I'm giving a film of my least favourite genre a perfect score but I think Sam Mendez and Krystal Wilson -Cairns who co wrote 1917 with Sam Mendez have had the final say on the futility of War and have done both their Grandfathers proud.
Both Wilson and Mendes separately say they want the film to act as a corrective to a repackaging of the war in the service of jingoistic isolationism. "People who are attached to some sort of nostalgic vision treat these wars retrospectively as triumphs," says Mendes. "In fact, they were tragedies.
"That kind of hijacking of shared cultural memories and pride is very subtle, and very easy to do. At the moment, it happens all the time. 'We're going back to being on our own again! This is the spirit that fought two world wars!' That's what we're now lumbered with."
1917 definitely is a Tragedy and I think possibly two reasons why this relatively simple story succeeds is that it's shot brilliantly in a group of single takes that have been seamlessly edited together to appear as one long take to create the impression that it's unfolding in real time . Also because co writer Krysty Wilson - Cairns unique feminine perspective has contributed an emphasis on the emotional impact . I'm sure it's her influence that helps humanise the personal sacrifice and bravery of these young men who by an accident of birth were born into an era when an entire generation on both sides was erased from the face of the earth between 1914 and 1918.
Only the human race is capable of such barbaric behaviour through the ages in the pursuit of power, territorial supremacy and hate and it's still happening today.Sam Mendes of course we know is a great Director and has dedicated this fine film to his Grandfather famed West Indian writer Alfred H. Mendes who served in the 1st Rifle Brigade, and fought for two years in Flanders, along the Belgian Front, and was awarded a Military Medal for distinguishing himself on the battlefield. Towards the end of the war, he accidentally inhaled the poisonous gas used as a weapon by the German army, and was sent back to Britain to recover.
The end credits simply say Dedicated to my Grandfather Alfred H. Mendes "who told us the stories " after five decades of silence when Sam Mendes asked him to tell him about the War his Grandfather was in his mid 70's he lived to be 94 years old.Sam Mendes won his first Academy Award in 2000 for the superb movie American Beauty his other great films include Road to Perdition, Revolutionary Road, SkyFall , Spectre, Little Voice and Jarhead plus many great stage productions . I predict after his Golden Globe wins for Best Director and Best Movie this week that he is assured of at least 2 more Academy Awards plus the film will be awarded a host of technical awards for "1917 "as the lighting, camera work ,editing and sets are extraordinary.The acting performances of course are all exceptional especially the two young stars
Dean- Charles Chapman as Lance Corporal Blake and George MacKay as Lance Corporal Schofield who set off on an impossible mission to deliver an order to the Captain of The Devonshire regiment to call off their planned attack and avoid an ambush that will cause the deaths of 2000 men including Corporal Blake's brother.
Top name Stars Colin Firth , David Mays and Benedict Cumberbatch have relatively small roles but add their fine stamp of quality performance to the film.1917 is at times painful and upsetting to watch it's not because of the gory battle scenes with heads being looped off or blood and guts everywhere it's more the result and cruel horrific aftermath of these battles the corpses the dead horses, and the destruction of war, it's all necessary for this film to have the impact it does have.The score by Thomas Newman son of the famous film score composer Alfred Newman is superb at times it's just a long continuous drone but elegiac in atmosphere. It reminded me of a Mahler symphony especially in the magnificent shadow and fire scenes of the burning French Village Corporal Schofield passes through on his mission. In a totally different way that scene reminded me of Sam Mende's other iconic beautiful moment in American Beauty of leaves whirling around in a wind tunnel I know It may sound odd but along with the ugly scenes of war 1917 has some beautiful moments.The film affected me personally because of my own Maternal Grandfather Herbert V Fortescue who I never knew and also fought in that war in France and who also was sent back to England to recover from poisoning by gas. I have his War Service record and 2 poignant letters one enquiring of his whereabouts by a lady who obviously cared about him and the other written by his father written in 1917 just 2 months before this film is set requesting any information regarding his son to be forwarded to his new address they put a human touch to the list of dates and battles mentioned in his service record.I've always boycotted most War films ( I did see the wonderful Australian film Danger Close The Battle of Long Tan earlier this year ) like Saving Private Ryan which I acknowledge may be the finest War Movie up to this time but 1917 in a year where there have been so many exceptional films like Joker, Little Women ,Once Upon A Time in America , The Two Popes ,Rocketman Ford v Ferrari etc 1917 stands out to me as the best as it will be a classic for ages to come to some up in 3 words Lest We Forget..
1917 is one of better war films of recent years even if it doesnt have a lot of fighting and war ascepts until the end,i would compare this film to dunkirk they both have similiar way to tell story and both films focused more on characters arcs and their journey through hard years and expereicing them,this film has one of best musical scores of year and it dominates scenes and builds them with tension and even despair,also this film is really visually great to look at but that was expected since deakins was cinematographer and his way of filming was very good made and it was used well,my only gripe was the same like in dunkirk that we didnt learned a lot about characters and they felt unexplored,1917 is defienetly one of better films of 2019
It was like saving private Ryan without action scenes, good acting and story line..... what a boring 2h and the peak came with a singing guy from Devon company. Actually director of photography should be the only one being cheered after that movie. If you're looking for bright conversations, epic war scenes, amazing character storylines..... watch Saving Private Ryan once again, this is the same average film as Dunkirk... and why he didn't kill this German pilot at sight ? Lol PC? Help and let yourself kill ? Is it war or AA movie
The story is total boring, the movie is slow, this movie is a huge disappointment from Sam Mendez, totally overrated, don't waste your time with it.
I sat down in the cinema expecting a strong war film, perhaps aligned with the likes of Dunkirk - captivating but limited by its lack of character study. As the credits rolled, tears certainly did too, and I felt a true affinity with this piece of such artfully crafted cinema, widely stunning, yet intimately removed from being another Hollywood blockbuster.
The premise of this epic is relatively simple: two young soldiers are sent on a mission to warn another regiment - where one of their brothers is stationed - of an impending attack. They must reach the regiment by dawn.
What follows is not only visually remarkable with the superb cinematography of Roger Deakins, but a compelling journey that the audience is able to follow closely, owing to the film's 'one shot' style. The relatively unknown leads, Dean-Charles Chapman as Blake and George Mackay as Schofield, are similarly superb, embodying the 'everyman' nature of those who served. With the use of star British actors, such as Benedict Cumberbatch and Andrew Scott, in the roles of higher officers, Mendes also comments on the social divides that were present during WW1. However, the true worth of this film shines particularly through the nuanced development of Schofield, not only through Mackay's determined performance, but through what he is made to endure - an example of storytelling being pushed to attain emotional, physical, and mental heights.
1917 is certainly a journey, if anything for its constant movement where no settings are repeated, and it is ultimately marked not by a fantastic display of heroism, but rather the quiet and shockingly harsh endurance of those who fought in the Great War. 1917 could have been the story of any soldier. It is one story amongst millions, and a beautifully forceful one.
Lots of hype about this, frankly the plot is paper thin and it paints a rather straight forward picture of WW1.
This film was executed so well that I have not felt this kind of immersion before in a movie. I was dragged in to the year 1917 and so thrilling journey. The thrill was nothing someone tried to do. It just happened when they succeeded so perfectly showing the environment and the soldiers like it just could have happened exactly like this. Cinematography, editing and directing is so good I was just drawing my breath all the time. And as a musician I am so relieved that the score hit me deep in my soul with other elements in the movie. A masterpiece. Well done!
It is a straightforward story with only one subject. Audience is equally in the dark alongside the subject with what's going to happen next. That's the idea of direction which is a great work. A simple story presented in a mysterious manner. That said, the continuous camera sequence is a great deal of editing but it's missing the continuous flow of sound, background sound so to say, which is equally important.It is 1917, not 2017 where trucks can be electric and soundless. Those are army trucks from WWI. When a subject is grieving on his mate and suddenly there are two other army personnel appear in the scene out of nowhere, and the next thing you see is a line of army trucks loaded with army personnel, question is, when they were getting closer to that location where the subject was, where is the sound of those trucks appearing closer and more so, of all those personnel?!Also, continuous camera flow is not required everywhere. To me, it's basically waste of some seconds, for example, where camera also moves into the truck along with the subject. Nonetheless, it is indeed a great camera editing especially all the water scenes including the small pond with dead bodies as well as waterfall scene with the river, overall a beautiful cinematography.Quite gripping to watch this film except that it could have been much better with the flow of missing important background sound.Rating: 6/10
Winning in Oscars effectively reflects that the movie excels in sound effect and shooting. However, the story is a bit dull, lacking story twist to attract my eye ball. Anyway, it is a ok time killer.
This is the first 10/10 in 2020. I think i'll watch it again and again. A simple story but with a great method of storytelling through cinematoghraphy philosophy.
Given that it is a bug budget historic war epic I was not expecting anything groundbreaking. But this follows every rule in the book and is so hideously predictable that it fails to excite and is often boring. Thank you for the CGI rats to offer at least a bit of emotion. Like with a lot of modern films, this is a movie we could all easily do without.
Lowest point for me was the cinematography. It is that Matthew Libatique working with Aranofsky (think Black Swan) sight abuse. I know it's the modern style of camerawork but that does not make it less insulting for the eyes.
Despite all the shortcomings Sam Mendes is brilliant, so is most of the cast. Always lovely to see Cumberbatch and Strong, Andrew Scott is very refreshing here, would have loved to see more of him.
This is not a bad film or complete failure, it's just lacking. Weak script, mediocre picture balanced out by great directing and acting. Worth the watch, not worth the hype.
One of the most stunning, breathtaking film experiences I have ever had.
Centering around 2 young Brittish soldiers, Blake and Schofield, tasked with a simple mission: cross enemy lines, into No Man's Land, and deliver a message to another battilion, countermanding an attack planned for the next day.Should the message not reach the batillion in time, 1,600 men (including Blake's brother) are likely to die at the hands of the Germans who lie waiting to spring their trap... With a refreshingly straightforward, momentum driven narrative, the audience is firmly placed in the trenches, alongside these soldiers as they make their way through the theatre of war.Director, Sam Mendes, and cinematographer, Roger Deakens, achieves this immersive feat by having shot the film to appear as one continous take, from a single viewpoint. The camera follows our heroes closely and without cutting away, through the entire, unrelenting experience - keeping the tension and dread squarely within focus.While the direction and camerawork is without a doubt a technical achievement, the stylistic choices could easily have been considered a gimmick, having the (ironically) adverse effect in taking its audience out of the experience. Thankfully, this is not the case, as the various facets of the production are seamlessly executed with mastery and care. This includes the gritty set pieces that will have your heart pounding at the same rate as the protagonists, holding your breath as they progress through booby trap laden trenches, enemy-infested buildings and perilous river waters.The film's casting should also be commended for having the restraint to put some of Britain's greatest thespians in the smallest of supporting roles. Instead, the film is led by two relatively unknown actors, giving the audience the opportunity to invest fully in the story and characters - without viewing it through the usual, artificial lens of A-list stars.Overall, the entire production is put together with a strong vision ans clear focus.
Immersive, hard hitting and unforgiving - an epic, in the grandest sense of the word. This one is not to be missed and demands to be experienced on the big screen. 10/10
One of the best war movies so far , gave it 10/10 for directing and cinematography. A must watch
Wow! Just left the cinema and I'm in awe of Mackay's performance! What a fantastic film, one of the best war films of the decade if not my lifetime (I'm 27) a must watch! If it doesn't get Oscars I'd be SHOCKED!
Seen this twice now at the cinema and for me it's the best war film since Saving Private Ryan.A stunning technical achievement by all involved but also a haunting look at some of the quieter "horror" sides to a horrendous and at times unbelievable part of our history.Just an a great film.
Visually amazing.
Story amazing.
Characters amazing.
This film you have to see, somehow from the moment of the opening shot it appears to be one long continuous shot right until the credits, makes the film flow perfectly at a great pace.
An incredible achievement - superb performances, beautifully shot and an outstanding testament to the brave souls who gave and risked their lives.The film captures fully the brutality of war but also the sheer innocence of those involved, reminding you that these brave young men were just that, young men caught in an unthinkable situation.The pace of the film is measured in part but also equally relentless, while the tension of the situation never leaves full respect and understanding is given to the characters, with them and their relationships portrayed beautifully.A thought provoking, relentless and ultimately very important masterpiece.
There isn't anything I can, by way of adulation, that hasn't already been said about this film. But I will say this-it's damn special. It says something about a period piece when nearly 6 weeks after its release, on a Friday when a big budget movie is being released, that the theater is still half full. If you need help restoring your faith in the art, this outta do it.
The movie is unbelievably over hyped. Lacks action. The one take is good but that's about it and that doesn't make a movie outstanding like a lot of people seem to think.
I wasn't expected the next saving private ryan but i love Mendes and I love American beauty so I was hyped , He successfully captured the emotional state of the two soldiers and the high pressure of the task they're up against, The dialogue isn't that great in fact it's so mediocre and really isn't special, the cinematography is great as expected from Mr. Deakins.
Does it deserve winning best picture and best director?
The answer is simply No, but it most likely will do, IMO The Irishman or Parasite are more deserving
But it's still a very good war movie with great cinematography that mixed perfectly with the production design and directing
Absolutely brilliant film, really shows the true horrors of war and what the brave soldiers had to go through. Some would say a slow film but I would say a brilliant story told with every detail spot on.
From the moment the movie began I found myself a little unsure as to how to take it. I was hoping for a realistic feel but beyond the look of the movie there isn't much about this you can buy into. The acting was quite stilted at times and the script and characters were off the mark. Visually it's fantastic but that can't carry a film alone, especially not one dealing with sensitive historical subject matter like this. The language used and the banter was not true of the time. The situations the main protagonists find themselves in from one moment to the next are at times believable and then immediately unbelievable. It was entertaining and spectacular to watch but it isn't a masterpiece in as much as it was badly cast and way too far fetched.
An achievement in movie making, for sure.. but Best Picture? I don't think so.Lets start with the good. The most obvious is the telling of this story in one single view. No cuts or passing of time. Everything occurring real time. The number of extras involved, the battle sequences, its is choreographed so wonderfully that the movie offers something that no other movie provides. A real perspective... as if you are on the journey with them. It is wonderful way to view this story and one we don't see used often (like in Birdman). However, this perspective in story telling does come at a cost and that is a lack of any real emotional connection to the characters.The movie begins with two soldiers being told to see the General for orders for a mission and from that point, they are off. How much do we really get to know about these characters? Why should we care about them other than the importance that they be successful in the mission they have been tasked with? As they are trekking through No-Mans land, they are on the look out for enemy Germans. Not really an opportune time to have any real conversations of any real substance so we never really do get to know the characters. The mission, and ONLY the mission seems to be real focus.1917 is definitely fascinating to watch and certainly worthy of a trip to the theater but it carries very little emotional impact on the viewer as compared to other war movies that have used more conventional methods of film making (Saving Private Ryan, Platoon, Band of Brothers). I feel that the movie would have been better served allowing us to get to know these characters through a standard narrative format before moving on to the one take perspective in order to give the audience something to connect them to these soldiers. That perhaps may have given the mission itself more weight.Yes we know the stakes are high, for them and for the success of the mission... but if we know our history, we really already know how the story ends, so what is needed is the a reason to care beyond that. That all gets lost without at least SOME focus on the characters.The point is this.. The movie is interesting BECAUSE of its perspective, but without it, would it be as interesting? Probably not.After watching, does it make you think? Does it make you feel? If it doesn't, then as war movies go, well. isn't that kind of the point and isn't it kind of a failure if it doesn't leave you with some kind of impression?For me, this movie simply felt like I came in at the point where the film was starting at the beginning of its build towards a climax but I had missed some of the exposition prior to it. So while there is tension and there is peril, there was nothing to connect my interest in the characters other than the success of the mission.The movie deserves high marks for its direction (no easy feat to coordinate a one take perspective for 1hr 30 minutes) and I certainly have no issue with the approach. After all It worked well in Birdman... but the difference in Birdman, is that we also got to KNOW the character and connect with him through the length of that movie and there was a depth to the character at a psychological level, and it worked because the story itself was completely character centered... not centered around an entire event.I would certainly give 1917 its props for cinematography, set pieces, visual effects, and perhaps for its way of telling the story, one could argue that it could deserve at least a Best Picture nomination. But considering the current lineup of nominees, there are other films far more deserving of that honor.
The visuals and sounds are A+, but the storytelling was pretty mediocre most of the time.
1917 .... Oscar nominated.British war film set in the trenches on the 1st World War . Two soldiers sent on a near impossible mission... across, behind and underneath enemy lines.
It's a great film and the two male leads captive your attention.Sadly the officers are played by the usual British acting hierarchy of Cumberbatch and Frith (how many times do we need to see their faces, are there no other British actors available)
The soldiers fight across no man's land, and somewhat implausible scenarios to reach their goal. Or do they (no spoilers)The clever bit and what's gained it all the plaudits are the "one" shot camera work, yes I did play spot the cuts which there are many. Alas the film didn't engage like I had hoped despite some tense scenes. Oscar Nominated yes, Oscar winner No!7/10
Overall a decent movie and very informative. I think it gives a accurate view of the Hell thats called WW-I. It depicts the death and dying, desperation of the young soldiers and the senseless killing that went on.
An adventure of two soldiers, orderderd to try stop their kinsmen who're marching unto a certain death because of the trap set by the German army. Will they make it in time? A good and true story, but I didn't feel much about the way the movie was executed and therefor I don't quiet understand the Oscar. But that's personal I guess.
For me it just wasn't the masterpiece I was expecting or hoping for. It felt kinda empty and hollow. For me it lacked the quality and depth of series and movies like: 'Band of Brothers', 'South Pacific', 'Saving Private Ryan', 'Platoon', 'Deerhunter', 'Hotel Rwanda' or 'Beasts of no Nation' and so on. I guess I just have to keep waiting a while longer.
It's been a while since Sam Mendes's last feature film. Spectre was quite a disappointment but I'm sure that 1917 will be a definite crowdpleaser.1917 follows two British soldiers who are assigned a task to deliver a message in order to stop 1,600 men from dying.Like Birdman, the main selling point is how the entire film looks like it's been shot in one single take. Through long demanding long takes and clever editing, the makers were able to achieve this. Whilst Birdman was shot in a very small area, 1917 traverses through many different locations which makes it really difficult to achieve the goal they were going for. What we got in the end is nothing short of a rollercoaster ride. You never feel bored since the location and action that takes place feel extremely real. This movie acts like a VR game as it genuinely feels like you are there with them about to embark on a perilous journey that may prove to be fatal.Roger Deakens has always been my favourite cinematographer and here he gives it his all. If he wins an Oscar for Best Cinematography, I wouldn't be surprised. The way the camera moves in front and behind the characters is fantastic. There are some absolutely gorgeous shots including one with George MacKay running which is just a feast for your eyes. What impressed me the most was the use of lighting during the dark scenes. There is one which involves flares and it's incredible how Deakens lit the scene up just using that. I really have to commend Deakens and Mendes for their work here. Making a war film seem like it's done in one shot is not easy at all but they managed to do it extremely well.Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay were required to do a lot for this movie but they both gave off very believable performances. On the other hand, their characters could have been better. Through the whole film it's very hard to care about both of them since we don't learn much about them. There is a very important scene that tried to bring an emotional reaction from me but I could not feel it due to how one dimensional the characters are. If Mendes and Wilson-Cairns tried to flesh out the characters more then this film would be much better.Altogether, this is a great achievement that should be viewed in the cinemas to get the full experience. The lighting, acting and camerawork are all done with tremendous skill. 1917 could have been better in terms of its writing but the aesthetics are what make this film unique from the other war films. Roger Deakens deserves another Oscar for this film and I have no doubt he will win it.
Brilliantly executed from a cinematography point of view. The story can only be described and beautifully haunting as it takes you on a journey of hope despair grief elation and the bitter truth of war. Set in WW1 it tells the story of a how an almost impossible mission is handed to 2 soldiers to avert a disaster in the front lines. Emotionally draining this spectacular piece of cinema will be most appreciated on the big screen and if possible IMAX is the way to do it.
We've had so many World War 2 movies but hardly any World War 1 movies. The last one I can think of is Wonder Woman but that wasn't an official World War 1 move. But now we've finally got one in the form of 1917.The story itself is decent although you could argue its not one of the best. But the way it is captured is what makes this movie a very good one.The single shot take works very well. It makes the journey throughout the movie more realistic and making it look like its in real time. The movie also had a lot of intense moments which worked better with the single shot technique.The movie deserves more credit for its cinematography, intensity and realism rather than the story and the history behind it. That was what made it a very good movie but just not one of the best. Having said that though, I do feel this is more in line with director Sam Mendes's forte compared to the James Bond movies. What he tried to do with Skyfall is achieved much better in 1917. Glad hes gone back to where his strengths are.
That's what war does to all of those young soldiers: turning them into alienated wayfaring strangers, just trying to survive in all the madness around. Sometimes the technical aspects of creating the illusion that everything we see is being shot in one take, dominate the story and the human implications.
But Mendes manages to keep the balance most of the time, supported of course by extraordinary young actors, who make the journey believable.
What i liked most were the moments of silence, of grief, of melancholy, the singing soldier in the wood, the surrealism of huge burning buildings at night, the loss of orientation in life-threatening situations. This exciting experience wouldn't work without Deakins brilliant cinematography, which is the real Oscar-worthy part here in my opinion.
WWI was the trench war and this film depicts this very clearly. 500 meters ahead would be the other side's trenches. Intelligence is obtained which requires a message to be delivered to a platoon behind enemy lines. Two men are picked to undertake this journey.This film covers that dramatic journey, taking the audience along for the slog into the unexpected.Anxious moments with unknown outcomes make this film a gripping drama and covers the horrid experiences of the messengers in enemy territory.
It's a solid 8/10 war movie but it has problems, the biggest of which is: There's several times in this movie where the main character makes IDIOTIC choices, which directly disadvantage him and puts himself and others into peril. It's honestly poor writing, for the sake of building the drama/suspense... but having the main character in your movie make stupid descisions simply to raise the suspense level is a very scummy writing tactic because the writer hopes that the viewer won't notice it (sorry, but I noticed).As far as the plot goes, it's a good plot, although the main character being a pacifist is dumb and honestly the movie would have been much better if they made the main character not be a pacifist... I mean, it's a battlefield in World War 1, so why would you make your main character a pacifist? I don't really object to it, I just know that the movie would have been better if he actually used his gun a bit more, but hey, they chose to make him a pacifist so it results in a movie with less action and thus in my opinion it's a more boring movie.And the 'one long shot' gimic is done adequately though it's not as good as Birdman (2014), and you can very easily see the moments that the next scene starts because there's always something passing between the field of focus and the camera (that's when you know a cut was made). Anyway, it's a cool gimic which is executed adequately but not executed as well as in Birdman.There's also 2 large plot-holes at 1hr2mins into the movie... Without spoiling anything, I'll just say: Why would the german target 1 lone guy, instead of a whole squad? In real war, any soldier would have JUMPED at the opertunity to shoot as many enemy soldiers as he could... And the 2nd plot-hole here is that it is exactly 55sec from the time that they dropped him off, until the first gunshot goes off, and in 55sec they would be MAYBE 800meters away from him (assuming they drove at 50km/h, which is being generous for army trucks on mud roads), so they would absolutely have heard the gunshots, and would have turned around to render aid to him, which would have changed the course of the entire movie.Overall, it's a good war movie and it'll keep you entertained for 1hr50mins. There ARE better war movies out there, like Fury (2014) or Saving Private Ryan (1998) which are both 10/10 movies, but this one is still a fine war movie at 8/10.
The Battle of Jangsari Wow so many western films WW1/2 but Korea...its forgotten. The movie The Battle of Jangsari is brilliant check it.
The Battle of the Somme is long gone in the stark April sunshine of 1917, as Sam Mendes directs a desperate dash through No Man's Land, with the historic still images of the Western Front vividly brought to life. Colin Firth's General Erinmore has an urgent message to send to the Devonshire regiment further up the front line. Do Not Attack, he has seen aerial footage that shows they are walking into a trap. But the German have cut the telegraph wires, and the only way to get through to coust-Saint-Mein is on foot.The orders are given to the boyish Dean-Charles Chapman's Lance Corporal Blake, and he picks George MacKay's Lance Corporal Schofield to accompany him. The Germans have retreated out of their trenches, and the path will be clear, but the two young soldiers are given hand grenades in their pack. Just in case! In The Lord of the Rings, Frodo and Sam's chances of reaching Mordor were slim. 1600 men's lives depend on Blake and Schofield's game of life to get the message through. But like our Hobbits, their chances are equally slim, and to add urgency to the journey, one of the soldiers due to go over the top is Blake's older brother. They have until dawn to stop the attack. And will have to cross No Man's Land in daylight.As they force their way through the trench to the front line, the camera follows at their shoulders, Andrew Scott's Lieutenant thinks the journey it's madness. Fighting for every inch of the land and then to suddenly have the Germans pull back. But he 'blesses' the two soldiers with his whiskey, riffing on the 'Hot Priest', and tells them to send a flare up if they make it. Otherwise they'll try and pull them back when night falls!Cutting the way through the hostile barbed wire, cinematographer Roger Deakins sweeps the camera across the stinking mud. But the landscape is silent as Blake and Schofield creep their way across. While the words of the WWI poets ring distantly in our ears. What tolling bells for those who die as cattle. Wilfred Owen's lament, past the bloated soldiers submerged in mud, past the horses unable to outrun the guns, past the ghosts of once trees. As clouds of flies fill the air and scurrying rats feast on the dead.The action plays as a single shot of the day, immersing the viewers in the real time carnage of the story. The pock marked battlefield is the star, with Production Design by Dennis Gassner, as Blake and Schofield face the eerie horrors, and eventually tumble into the German trenches. These were well made for the men to dig in, but now empty save for a lovers photograph. But the Germans have not made their retreat easy, with leaps of faith in the pitch black booby trapped potential tomb. And a later aerial dogfight brings the fight to the ground, with an act of mercy that leads to catastrophic results. Sam Mendes isn't afraid to show the PTSD among the men, with George Mackay particularly good at looking shellshocked. I've followed his career since Sunshine On Leith, in that joyous musical he was happy! But here his face is perfect for misery.But the message must get through, with the camaraderie along the way of those brave young men and boys going off to fight who knows where. Mark Strong almost unrecognisable, but full of support and help as his men are also headed towards the Devonshires, but must divert when a blown up bridge bars their vehicles route. A sniper taking shots halts the rhythm of the film, throwing us into darkness, until we stagger round for the final push. coust-Saint-Mein is within reach just downstream, but in a nightmare town Germans are blowing up the remains in their retreat. The camera following any way they can as we run to the river, bullets whizzing past while red flares half light the ruined town. And with dawn breaking the tension is relentless. In exhausted relief we hear the sound of silence and a lone singer. Jos Slovick and his soulful Wayfaring Stranger.But it really is a final sprint to deliver the message, with Deakins incredible filming again and shells exploding over men just to our left, and the force knocking us down in those last moments of urgency to stop the whistles blowing.Among the terrific ensemble cast were cameos including Daniel Mays, Richard Madden and Benedict Cumberbatch. No one stealing the limelight though, just getting on with the job in those precious hours, and hoping to live another day. Watching the film felt like a lifetime in the blink of an eye. All those lives that didn't grow old, and those that grew old far too early, but came home. Very poignant with a tight crew that deserve all the awards coming their way.
This is a must watch film not one for theses films but am glad I had the thought to watch it the way the actors and the way it was directed was just brilliant
I love the camera angles and the closeup shots in the movie. However, I am frustrated how the movie never showed actual German soldiers in battle or fighting but rather scatters of Germans (sniper shooting, some soldiers shooting in the dark of an abandon town, German pilot for only a minute). I have a feeling that once again political correctness got in the way. Amazing how Hollywood is so frightened they may offend someone that they will try everything to ensure another side isn't shown as the enemy. They would have found a lot more Germans than what the movie depicts.What really bothered me is the scene where the rat crosses the trip wire causing a major explosion. Someone both soldiers don't receive any wombs (just some dirt in their eyes) but the explosion caused the entire mile long tunnel to collapse (as they ran through the tunnel, it was collapsing behind them but never in front of them).
A riveting journey from quiet beginning to cathartic and captivating end. The real-time, one-shot concept is effective but would not have worked as well as it did without the excellent camerawork, production design, and performances. Far from a mere technical exercise, here the fear, the mud, the tears, and the blood are all too real and heart-wrenching (stand-out moments include no-man's land, tragedy at the farm, the petals on the river (sob), talking to baby, surreal song in the forest).
It's amazing movie
And good story
Happy ending
And good act
I like a good war movie and couldn't wait to see this, it's a very well shot movie, great images fantastic back drops. But it's the kind of movie you only watch once, like Saving Private Ryan its is a good movie - not a nice movie if you know what I mean. Yes it's a horrors of war movie not an adventure story. I was a bit disappointed with the unnecessary scenes were he meets the girl with the baby in the bombed out town, felt like a bit of distraction (similar to the plantation scene in Apocalypse Now), it didnt add to the character or the story for me. I'm glad I've seen it but I didnt come out wowed as I expected.
If you are a war movie fan, this movie is an excellent addition to the genre with great production design, acting and realism. I truly enjoyed the environment it created by its visuals and soundtrack. If you like productions like Saving Private Ryan, Band of Brothers or Dunkirk, then you will be in for a treat. It is a type of movie you need to watch in the cinemas to really appreciate what it has to offer.The primary goal for the main characters is a pretty straight forward war mission, but the true storytelling evolves around the journey to accomplish it. The realistic practical sets and CGI effects really worked well. The cinematography gave the audience a seemingly tour of environment of a typical war field as it pans strategically to bring attention to various moments and moods.The continuous shot effect was quite a novelty and was probably a very huge technical feat and tedious to produce, especially to transitioning to various quality framing shots. I personally think making the movie this way as a constant theme was distracting as I start to try to spot the "breaks" and the continuous single shot motion made me feel lethargic. As a person who have seen and played a few 1st person and 3rd person shooter games, the novelty wore off pretty quickly. I would probably have still enjoyed this movie without it.This movie is more of an experience and journey, rather than of an in depth storytelling of war strategy with intelligent scripts, so this movie is more of a ride than a lecture.If you are not a war movie fan, it may get boring for you after awhile if you get over the great visual and sound effects quickly.
This is a good film. Visually excellent and gives you a real feel of what it would have been like on the front line WW1. There is a feeling of haven't we been here before referring to Saving Private Ryan and a little Gallipoli at the end. There is terrific tension and drama. However the leads are miscast. They came across as a couple of Eton boys. Perhaps that was the intent, that war heros are not necessarily all tough alpha males, but it detracts from the film. Don't mean Jason Statham or the Rock, but more presence needed.
With all the hype that is surrounding this film being nominated for best picture I expected more. Some of the scenes made me question why were they done in that manner. Overall it's a good solid (7) with beautiful scenes and fantastic cinematography. Personally, I could see it getting a couple of nods for some lower level awards at the Oscars, but I do not see this taking home best picture. I would definitely recommend seeing the movie it has the major components of a good war film.
On one hand we have; solid acting, great costume and production design and good cinematography (especially during the "flare night" scene). On the other one the script was effective, at times, but very simple, and directing and editing were going for a one take type of film which they didn't take It to It's logical extreme cuting in obvious moments.
However, the only things I'm sure we all agree will be the bad CGI and the overused and annoying music that was anything but helpful for the experience except for a couple of scenes.I have to say tho It is pretty hard get an immersive experience from a movie If you spend first 30 minutes smelling popcorn and hearing how people eat and drink like animals. And, ofcourse, not watching a great movie helps I guess.
As a history lesson on construction and engineering of WW1 trenches this was an interesting watch. In terms or storyline or action there is more in a single episode of band of brothers than in this entire movie!
Stunned and completely lost for words. Rarely do films reach such high thrills or encompass so deep and meaningful visual storytelling. In short, 1917 is a piece to behold leaving you on the edge of your seat while never failing to grasp the profound and heartbreaking impact of the Great War.The films compelling message is also greatly enhanced by it's Soundtrack. Composed by Thomas Newman, the score is both beautiful and extremely tense. Neither is it ever overused or absent when needed most. As such 1917's Score is a perfect blend of emotional musical cues and nerve wrecking strings.It is hard to fathom what those brothers, fathers and friends have endured in those trenches or how they ever returned to society. Arguably in the scene where these men sing "The Wayfaring Stranger", a song about the plaintive soul in the journey through life - it is evident why they are often referred to as the 'lost generation'.1917 is their hymn.
Cinematography 10/10 - stunning
Plot 6/10 - too much plot armourOverall 8/10
Solid World War 1 film that looks great and has some great acting.
Though I feel a little like War films are going to struggle to find anything new to say, "1917" has a pedigree that meant I couldn't let this one pass me by, and it's such a technical marvel that I'm glad that I did.During The Great War, two soldiers, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) are charged with crossing what was formally no mans land to locate a battalion that is planning to go over the top the following morning. Unbeknownst to the command team at this location, the German's have withdrawn strategically and are setting a trap. Blake is particularly invested in this mission as his brother in part of the battalion due to attack.There was a great choice made to attempt to tell his story is a few cuts as possible, so, for example, the film opens with a good half an hour long scene of the soldiers receiving their orders, making their way along the trenches and across no man's land. It's here that you get a sense of the filmmaking scale, with miles of trenches being dug out and hundreds of extras giving a full impression of how awful conditions would have been for the real soldiers. You also see the skill of camera work, as it moves along the trenches with the guys, before sailing out and around them as they reach more open land.All that technical work though, shouldn't over shadow the central performances from the leads. They're excellent. Both convey that they are best friends, but that they are at different points in their war experience, with Blake more optimistic about heading home than Schofield. The key personnel in the military brass are all played by recognisable actors, Daniel Mays, Andrew Scott, Colin Firth, Mark Strong and Benedict Cumberbatch and though they're little more than cameos they're obviously dependable and they all do a good job.Admittedly, away from the strengths, it is another film that has the similar "War is bad" message and whilst that's a message that's often worth repeating, it's not a new one. I would also be a little critical of the score, which felt heavy-handed in places - particularly around the ruined town.The positives far outweigh the negatives though for a film that must be the favourite for the Cinematography Oscar at least.
1917's overlooked color, light, and set design lulls you into a subtle hypnotic trance that mesmerizes you throughout the entire film. The grand feat of Roger Deakon's cinematography evokes firsthand tension through secondhand meticulously visual storytelling. Though the minimal character building keeps the film from being an emotional classic, the extensive world building and methodical shooting techniques of 1917 will set a precedent for all future wartime epics.
Enjoyable movie if only for single shot vehicle. You can see the seams if you're observant, like when the camera passes a close prop like a tree. The relationship between the two soldiers is fairly well done. Not super exciting, but worth the ticket price.
Directed by Sam Mendes. Starring George MacKay, Dean-Charles Chapman, Colin Firth, Claire Duburcq, Andrew Scott, Mark Strong, Richard Madden, Benedict Cumberbatch. (R)Two British soldiers (MacKay, Chapman) are given the task of delivering a message across enemy lines to halt an attack that would cost over a thousand lives. Director Mendes' WWI drama cares naught for the politics or grand theater of war, choosing instead to focus on two individuals undertaking one mission covering less than twenty-four hours, with the camera ceaselessly following them in real time. That faux-continuous "single shot" gimmick is a distracting one, especially in the early-going; Roger Deakins' photography is sublime as expected, and the technical mastery is undeniable (though some of the edit points are hardly seamless), but the technique trivializes character dimension and the economy of rhythm for the sake of raw, limited experience. Designed to give the viewer a down-and-dirty, firsthand look at the experiences of soldiers, never exceeding its scope beyond what the main characters can see or anticipate, but also never escaping the labors of its own ritual--visually spellbinding at times, appropriately stark and grimy, yet never fully immersive or emotionally engaging. The leads do solid work with little meat written onto the bones besides exhaustion, fear and determination; small roles for recognizable faces do little besides provide faces to recognize.67/100
The Beatles sang "Two of Us" and "1917", shows the camaraderie of two on a mission and what it means to be faithful to the needs of another and being willing to completely shoulder the burden, seeing the task through!
The Oscars are coming closer - and with them, the more demanding films in the cinema are also piling up. With "1917" Sam Mendes presents after JARHEAD again a highly interesting war movie. The First World War is raging, British troops want to attack the German troops, who are supposedly in retreat, when suddenly the British headquarters learn that it is actually an ambush. Two young soldiers, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay), receive the order to warn their comrades. A race against time begins, which Mendes shows without a visible cut. The aesthetics are not accidentally reminiscent of video games: Through the gaming theme, the film can tell a lot about the nature of cinema, computer games and war.
The movie sucked you in from the very beginning. The way it was shot like everything happened in one take really trips you out but also make you part of the story and keeps you on edge. I would recommend this movie to anyone.
This is something like a more traditional (and thus for my taste better) version of Dunkirk. The film is as much about what time means in light of death as it is about The Great War. It has an operatic scope. The storyline is sparse and the dialog spartan. But the characters are more clearly defined in this film than Dunkirk. There is a stronger central plot and a better sense of narrative momentum. If you hated Dunkirk but thought maybe the concept could work this is a film to see.In any case I still found the film too technique driven to fully work. The film consists of long takes stitched together to form almost one continuous shot for the entire film. (There is one visible cut in the film, the rest are hidden). This technique-to various degrees-has been used several times already-usually to a better effect. You get it for comedic tone in The Player and Birdman. You also have it used for building tension about survival in Gravity. You have it for meditative effect it The Revenant or for that matter for a shot in Atonement. You have the time thematic application of it in Russian Ark. Having seen this trick a few times now how and where the cuts are hidden can be obvious. I found Mendes' use of the technique distracting. I spent much of the film looking for the seams. In any case I didn't find the long take all that immersive. To often the way the camera switches its general location-i.e. from behind the actors to in front-broke the atmosphere of the film by calling attention to the fact it was a film. It ended up feeling all a little staged.It is a pity. Several sequences are well put together. The two main performances are quite good. The film works in fits and starts. When it works it really works. When it doesn't it really doesn't.
The acting is great, the music is superb, the gunshot will make you jump, and there are some really epic escape scenes in this film. This isn't a war film in terms of Saving Private Ryan, where there are huge armies battling it out with brains splattering everywhere and so on. This has none of that.This is a mix of Dunkirk (no character development or backstory), Ad Astra (With the slow moving scene and loud music, and The Revenant (people trying to survive against the elements).This is NOT an all out war film like Saving Private Ryan, this is a slow burn with about 2 - 3 really epic moments that will give you chills and make your blood run.Overall just because of the filming that was involve in making this, it is a 9/10
Lance Corporals Tom Blake & William Schofield must deliver a letter. 1,600 men (including Tom's brother) are facing certain death if they don't. Rotting horse & human carcasses, flies, rats, barbed wire, tunnels, craters, tripwires & mud
The subject matter of this outstanding film, although important, takes a back seat due to the beautiful filming techniques that makes the movie to appear have been shot in one take and the absolutely stunning cinematography! This film take an absolutely devastating moment in history with remarkable visual clarity of the horror of war and turns it into an unbelievable cinematic masterpiece. In one night scene the dancing shadows of airborne flares on the bombed out walls of a town is filmed in such a manner as to make it a beautiful picture. With many other outstanding examples of this style of filming this movie is a beautiful piece of art. If you go to see this film as a "regular" war movie you may be disappointed, but view it for a visually stunning work of cinematography and you will come away awestruck.
1917 is a new war drama directed, partly written and produced by Sam Mendes, the director of American Beauty and Skyfall.The film is set during the First World War where the two British soldiers Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George Mackay) are sent on an important and dangerous mission. They must alert the British troops of 1,600 soldiers, among which Blake his brother before they attack and thus fall into a deadly hostile trap. The two must travel through friendly and enemy trenches for this mission, but also through the dreaded no man's land filled with war victims, damage and deadly booby traps.Director Sam Mendes, together with photography director Roger Deakins, visualized and edited the film in such a way that it appears as if the film was only shot in a long scene. This way of filming was also done by Alejandro G. Irritu with his Oscar winning film Birdman. The cameras film the entire film around the characters. The various cameras are held by the hand for filming, on cars or via iron rods and wires concentrated on the characters. This way of filming makes it feel like you are also present as a third soldier as a viewer during this mission in the war. As a viewer, you also want to look around to see if you see any dangers such as barbed wire, bomb wires or mines. This creates extra excitement and intense moments, because just like the characters you are in unknown hostile territory. You also do not know that when you see others at a far distance, whether they are friendly or hostile soldiers. Because of the way they put this film together, they show how bad a war and its consequences are.The film location and the attributes on the film set also help well with the realistic transfer of the film. No man's land is filled with war victims, their animals, used ammunition and hidden booby traps. Because of the way they were filmed, they were also dependent on natural light and weather. Because of this, they needed more time when filming, because they had to wait until the sunlight was out or in the right place.The acting is done well by the two main players. As a viewer you do not know too much about them, but you still care about them and their important mission and hope that they do not get themselves in danger. Dean-Charles Chapman and George Mackay are also not such well-known actors, but they still know how to deliver good and fitting acting in this film. Major actors such as Benedict Cumberbatch, Mark Strong and Colin Firth play more smaller roles in this film, but they are important roles.
Two young men are told to go deep behind enemy lines to deliver a message to call off an attack. This film is shot in a non stop viscerel way in one fluid take. The cinematography is stunning to look at. The direction by Sam Mendes is the real star of this film. He moves the camera in a way that really gets you in the thick of the action. There is minimal dialogue, the pacing of this film is really well done. The two young stars of the film do a great job carrying the movie. I really enjoyed every minute of this film, it was a joy to watch. One of the best films of the year.
The Stream: The storyline is completely unimportant.The Big Screen: Tremendous filming, scenery and intense moments.The Final Bill: Travel down the intense path less traveled in 1917.Let's get to the nitty gritty of this World War I spectacle.Let's get the plot out of the way, as it is the most forgettable part of the movie. 1917 features two young British privates during the First World War. Of course, the "powers that be" give the most expendable pawns with the most to lose the "impossible mission". The privates must deliver a message deep in enemy territory that is necessary to save the lives of 1,600 men. And yes, of course, one of the privates has a brother among that 1,600 that must be saved from walking straight into a deadly German trap. Now that the first 5 minutes of the movie are out of the way, we can get to the brilliance.To me one of the most awesome feats of this movie is the single shot filming. Now, we all know it is impossible to shoot a nearly two hour movie in one shot flawlessly, but truly the editing and camerawork is amazing. The single shot view enhances the feel of anxiety and urgency. Throughout the movie, I felt as if I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. One thing I can be certain of is that this movie will definitely receive consideration during award season, especially for the cinematography by Roger Deakins.The filming was great in the execution but also in the setting/scenery. While most of the movie is flat and barren due to the war-torn wasteland, yet the actors take us on the path less traveled. Seriously, through the ups and downs of bunkers, craters, farmlands, waterways, etc. the film moves us. Speaking of moving us, Chapman and MacKay provide a few moving moments, lame ones as well. Both do a very good job conveying the emotional rollercoaster that 1917 and war in general provides to our brave soldiers in the field. The viewer truly follows the ebbs and flows of the privates from beginning to end. We see you King Tommen.Long story short, 1917 is an intense, watch your every step, war epic that will garner Oscar buzz from its incredible camera work and set management. The storyline is the most basic it can get but that's not why you're going to this movie in the first place. Get a bucket of popcorn and chow down while you race (pensively) to the end.
The worst movie ever. Don't waste your time. I don't know why the rate is 8.5. If I could I would give -10
The story, acting, action is good but this one thing about movie. from the start till the end in one shot it is really boring, annoying, making u sick and stressed. I know it is very very hard work and the best credit goes to the makers of this movie but for audience this type of shooting is really annoying well at least for me it is.
It's very peculiar type movie , nothing is new in this movie.
Expected great things from the previews and was terribly disappointed. The story is dull. The characters are uninteresting. Walked out 1 hour in. Dear Sam Mendes, you owe me 30 bucks....
While visually it is well made it is the most boring sleeper I've ever seen!
The one-shot gimmick that Birdman used so well is dialed up and used to perfection in this film, to help immerse you in the experience being portrayed. This is truly the work of masters of the craft of film. The two leads should have no trouble getting hired, because not even Leo in The Revenant worked as hard as they did.
Unlike in Saving Private Ryan, I could actually see what was going on in the movie at any given moment, with nothing hiding behind shaky camera work. The tension is nearly constant. The score only enhances that. This is the best movie of 2019, and a must-see on the biggest screen with the best sound system possible.
One of the worst movies I've ever seen! I have no idea how it got such a high rating..wtf
This decades Saving Private Ryan.Plain and simple. 1000 times better than Parasite. No idea how that won over this.
Hollywood and their artsy fartsy gay means can go straight to hell!!! They play favorites and pick whom they want, and rarely have the best movie win THE BEST PICTURE!!!! It's happened on numerous occasions and they still have not learned... But without question, this was the best movie of 2019..... It was brilliantly made and shows true courage.... and EVERYONE should watch this and enjoy this masterpiece!!!
It brings you straight in the world of the trenches of the Great War. What beautiful cinematography. it deserves an oscar for that. The story is bleak and very far fetched from reality. A plane (they were rarely used back then) just happend to crash right in front of them, they passed by a tank which was also not very common then.
Was expecting a lot more from the film going off the reviews
The first issue I have is with set design, the movie posits the trenches as a bit muddy but not too bad. The plot ambles from device to device to keep it moving but I was more and more incredulous the longer it went on. The 'single' shot was impressive and immersive but let down by the wider portrayal of the action. Many critical reviews have made the same observations I would so I won't labour the points, but it reflects badly on the other offerings we've had this year that this film has got the accolades that it has.
Like watching the same game of hide and seek for two hours. Watching this once was enough.
Didn't know anything about the movie untill I saw it because I wanted to be suprised, but I wasn't.. Not once.. When it's filmed like this you should have thought that you got closer to the main characters, but you really don't. I didn't feel nothing when one of them died, I Just got angry that someone would force someone with a deep stab wound in their abdomen to stand up, and not knowing to put real pressure on the wound.. Did they really do this in 1917? Didn't they know any better? Someone please enlighten me, because I really wanna know. Also the explotion was too stupid..they would have been blown to pieces. It was interesting to see how a war scene could look like, but the dead ppl and horses, didn't really affect me at all. It feels more like you're playing a videogame. I also get frustrated that I don't see the hole picture, and sometimes I Just don't understand whats going on, because our vision is so limited. I also was really dizzy and unwell after the movie, but just because of the filming, not the plot. And the scene with the girl and baby I simply didnt understand. Shes not hiding, with the perfect fireplace just beside all the germans.. When his head hurts i imagined that ut was really bad and she had to push things back in place, but suddenly the injure didnt matter anymore, because of a baby.. I mean the movie is 2 hours long, and they use maybe one minute in total putting pressure on their wounds.. And when he finally gets there, the signing soldier was supposed to bring up feelings? I mean, you have an important message, and u cant just tap someone on their shoulder straight away to let them know.. And couldn't someone help him deliver it? But suddenly he goes from zombie to superhero and runs like hell.. He's the first one to get up, but no one shoots at him.. And when he miraculous finds the brother, still you have no emotions to this.. And im a big empath and can Even cry during commercials, but this movie couldn't bring upany real emotions, and leaves us just as emotionless as the main character.. If that was the idea behind, its brilliant, making us feel like emotionless soldiers being used to all that, but I really dont think it was?!? Would never have finished this movie had I seen it at home, was just bored, dizzy and left with many questions about wounds, lol.
Won't spoil it but wow, was expecting so much from this movie and it's terrible. A timelime that is surreal with characters appearing and disappearing at plot's will and bullets that bend to land always inches from the character's face. Not believable at all...
Really don't know what all the fuss is about, nice cinematograthy but thats all. There is very little tension and no real action, not a bad film just not a very good one.
Wonderful movie, that really gives you credit for paying close attention to the minor details.Had me at the edge of my seat for the whole movie.10/10
A film is not only photography and some beautiful footage. With that I do not want to mean we can find this in 1917 at all because it is only a good attempt at photography sometimes but others filmmakers have done much better before. The film is only entertaiment and nothing else. Long time without seeing so many mistakes in a story and in what any normal human behaviour would be. For a large list I would have to write spoilers everywhere. This is the big issue.A few good actors without any deep lines or chance to pronunce themselves. But it happens so fast that you don't even realize it. It sounds like a few ones maybe realized the bad situation but someone in a hurry said "no way...lets the war begin".
I can't deny the filming was amazing. but the action scenes were just dull and so as to the story. I can't really point out what the mistakes were but the movie was dull
While I am not a full-fledged historian, the absolute hell on earth that was The Great War has always had me with my ears perked up and at full attention and upon finding out there is going to be a big hollywood film on the topic I was more or less excited about it. Granted, I don't watch trailers so I didn't know what to expect, outside a WW1 war film.The Good:
The film really delivered when it comes to costume design, there was great attention to detail, albeit some pieces were anachronistic, but that is negligible.
The lighting was great and in some scenes absolutely key, combined with the decent camera work and filming locations it shapes up as a very aesthetically pleasing film.The Bad:
I was really hoping for a more-or-less realistic depiction of WW1. Needless to say, this was NOT it. I am not one for gratuitous gore and guts, but it's hard to overstate how much of a Hieronymous Bosch-esque trench warfare in The Great War was and I was really hoping that would be featured in the film. It's obvious they tried to point that out, but it seemed extremely tame, both in scale and in intensity.
The script is pretty basic, which in itself wouldn't be bad, however too many things just happen out of plot convenience which defeats the purpose of keeping the plot simple.
Scenes just require a ridiculous amount of suspension of disbelief, especially when it comes to shootouts.To those interested in learning about WW1:
Dan Carlin's "Blueprint for Armageddon" does a fantastic job at providing both a very educational and (gruesomely) entertaining take on the war. Lengthy as it may be, I think every second of it is worth listening.
Well shot and acted. Some scenes look a bit phony or surreal, especially those shot in the town at night.
Basically a rehash of a one minded plot like Prvt.Ryan but to my taste, not as well done and not as interesting.
People that say the film puts you into the battle, but so did Prvt. Ryan, Dunkirk, and a slew of other war movies.
Yes, very few movies about WWI but after All Quiet on the Western Front, you don't need any more.
Remember, this was a ridiculous war based on alliances, not a war to save mankind from a lunatic mass murderer.
The leaders of Germany and England were cousins, daughters of each other's royal family.
The reason very few movies are made about The Great War is that it shouldn't have happened in the first place.
Most historians agree that it would have been better if Germany won the war. If the Germans won, Europe would not have changed drastically, but the reparations that Germany was forced to sign at the Treaty of Versailles led to the rise of Hitler and Nazism and might have never taken place.
The the first "modern war" the Great War was the last gasp of Victorians. the war to end all wars still has negative reverberations today and it was a shame millions had to die for nothing.
That is the biggest blunder of history. The WAR and this film both never had to happen.
'1917' is the worst war movie ever
 new production's strengths are vitiated by a wrongheaded conception of cinematic time.
The story seems like saving private Ryan, but the final quality is pretty lower. good cinematography especially camerawork but the plot and characterization is awful. it's a mediocre movie
I've never enjoyed WWI movies so take that into account when noting I only gave this movie 5 stars. I'm a huge WWII fan though. But my son saw it and said it was good. He and I have similar taste in movies so I thought I'd give it a go. In the end it was a meh for me.The sets were well done. I felt as if I got a good feeling what it might have been like being there. The acting was fine too.I think the single shot style did add something to the movie, but not enough to make it worth all of the extra effort and expense. There were a few times when I wished the camera would pan around but that would have broken the one-shot theme.The theater attendance was pretty light today (Martin Luther King Day), I'd guess about 40 in attendance in a theater that must seat 250.
To this day I haven't had a more extreme and emotional cinema experience. The storyline itself is original, though some parts of it are just basic war movie cliches.
But that is not what this movie is about, it doesn't matter that it contains some cliches because the way they portray them on screen is the best and most original way possible. I had goosebumps the whole movie and it kept surprising me over and over again. U get so invested in the characters right away and character building works so well with this personal type of filming. I don't know if 2020 is gonna bring anything else this enjoyable but I'll be surely rewatching this movie as soon as possible.
This movie is dull and extraordinarily disappointing. Maybe my expectations were too high. Deakins cinematography is the only reason this film is somewhat watchable. I can't fathom what awards season saw in this. Academy Awards once again has proven to be about releasing your film in December, regardless of its quality. This movie is not worthy of the accolades it is receiving. The main character stumbles into the end result the same way he stumbled through every challenge in this film. The most compelling characters are the A-listers that sneak themselves in and command every scene away from our protagonist. Highly disappointed in making time to see this in theaters.
I found the music in 1917 continually overpowering and intrusive, as if I were never trusted to observe and think or feel for myself, but had to be led.While the English soldiers are very personalized, and shown as brave, committed, silly, noble, frightened, persevering, the Germans are portrayed as duplicitous and savage the only times they appear and are deceitful in their off-camera essence as well, setting traps large and small.When English trucks become stuck in mud, do the English in general not know what to do? Did English military trucks in 1917 not carry cables?Will reassures the French woman that he is English, not German - a woman in a cellar alone at night is going to be reassured to learn the nationality of the man holding a gun on her?While talk about the movie seems centered on the device of a continuous take, the film actually seemed to me to be ticking off one war film cliche after another. I entered the theater ready for something novel and affecting, but within the first few minutes felt unimpressed and remained so for the rest of the picture.
Except for when the pilot was shot the marksmanship abilities resemble those of the Imperial Stormtroopers in Star Wars. And I cannot believe that snipers would miss their targets no matter how many times they shot at them. I very much doubt that the snipers would keep shooting at them as many times as they did because that would only give away their positions. All in all I thought the movie was ok.
Over a Century ago .Sam Mendez' film developed through a homage to stories of his Grandfathers experience in the First World War. You can tell this is one of his most personal films.This film really depicts how trench warfare really was, horrifying. We see events unravel in real time just as our lead characters do and that's where the one shot really does work- we're experiencing the world as they are.-Perfect pacing.
-Cinematography is out of this world (Roger deakins)- some shots will remind you of skyfall
-score in parts will leave you with goosebumps throughout
-tense to the point you'll be actually feel slightly anxious
-one shot gimmick is almost forgotten because the film grips youOnly niggles is the dialogue sometimes is flat.
Game of thrones tie ins took me out a little bit.But I'm writing a review on here sooner rather than later to Urge people to watch this on the biggest, loudest screen possible before it leaves!
I only wanted to explain the technical side of this film as it truly just needs to be watched.
If you love war films, don't bother with this..
This films was close but soo far.. A few moments jumped the shark and were just un realistic.. I had issues with some of the vfx that looked soo fake and a really weird sound mix.. When the German war plane crashed this film early jumped the shark. This film didn't totally suck, but when 100m is spent.. It's way off the mark.. Stream it for free in a few years..
Not a patch on Saving Private Ryan. Plenty of detail and scenes to make you think ; amazing cinematography and all that stuff . BUT the story ? Where was it ?
Bla Bla Bla there is no story ... no action .. very stupid scenario and bad acting ..
Sam Mendes is one of my favorite directors. Yet, 1917 is very amateur in every aspect. Movie is an unsuccessful duplication of Saving Private Ryne ( SePR ) . It animates the very unforgettable scenes of SPR. The mission, the adventure two soldiers face, even the knife fight scene, raiding the house with wooden srairs in which German sniper was hiding ..Everything is copied from the
benchmark movie
SPR. Besides, there are unconvincing plot fallacies. When two soldiers gotten the mission to deliver the message to not that remote division, first they rush then they slow down. Plus if there were British soldiers majority alongside the road why on earth one of these planes, division etc..hasn't been given that mission.. Colin Firth's apperance even seem not to spare the movie from being a big dissapointment. If the director was a youngster from Z generation it could be accaptable . But seeing Sam Mendes' name in the movie shaked me very badly !
Underwhelming movie. Not accurate depiction of the time and the scene where he runs away from enemy fire in the middle of open city is just so phony.
Waste of my time and money. Good movie if you suffer from insomnia.
Sam Mendes has made an exceptional good movie and the "one shoot" technique really supports the story in every way. It is difficult for any director to make the horrors of WW1 fell real, but the acting, screen play and filming made it very intense experience.
Give us a break. The movie is ok but nothing new, utter predictable, I do not know why this movie is expected to win The Academy Awards. Parasite is 100 better than this film.
Why send an airplane, or a pigeon to send a message, when you can send a soldier on a 2-day checklist of adventures, with sequence of even that even an entire company of men couldn't realistically encounter during an entire war. After all, Mendes an action-hero movie to shootI rest my case.
As WW2 movies go, this is pretty poor. The story ain't that exciting, it's no Fury or even a Dirty Dozen.
Fancy camera work doesn't save the fact that it's pretty much a non-event.
But how can this film be nominated for an Oscar? But is it an adventure film (however boring adventure) or is it a war movie?
I really cannot understand people giving rate of 10.
I enjoyed the film..due to it being in ww1. I appreciate what it was aiming for. Some of it was pretty engaging but it's not a masterpiece. Reminded me more of a really expensive well shot BBC drama.Don't get me wrong it was ok to watch I wouldn't call it Oscar worthy though
I can see this going the way of Shawshank or Dark Knight, movies I was originally neutral towards but got ruined over time by the fanbase making them into the most overrated trash of all time. This movie, while good, is already starting to go the same way. I saw this movie about two weeks ago, and over the past week I keep having to remind myself "oh yeah, I did see that movie". The pacing works and the movie did feel shorter than it was, but I also spaced out frequently while watching it, and much of the scenery was repetitive, which I know given that the war was mainly trench warfare you're going to have a lot of that, it still felt like watching one of those old Hannah-Barbara cartoons where the characters run against the same recycled background that keeps looping every few seconds, trench, trench, no man's land, trench, field, city, trench. Also, know how in Big Bang Theory, one of the characters points out that in Raiders, Indie's presence is totally superfluous and the plot would've played out the same way even if he wasn't there? This movie suffers from the same exact problem: the plot and main character are totally superfluous. If they needed to get an urgent message across, the common practice was to simply fly a plane and drop the message down. There. Simple as that. There would've been zero reason to send two people on foot, unless maybe the unit didn't have any planes available, which seems a bit of a stretch. People keep going on about the trick photography where its edited to look like one continuous shot. Okay? Rope has done that. Birdman has done that. Most impressively, Russian Ark was literally one single hour and a half shot with no editing tricks. That's an achievement. There's nothing new to what this movie does. It's pretty standard American War fare (I know this movie is English, but Brit and Yank war movies are the same, they have the same sensibility, the same POV), no different than Private Ryan or Band of Brothers or Dunkirk or Hacksaw Ridge.
Before I saw it, I'd have guessed that a WWI movie would have been impossible to film in the manner that this one was - i.e., with real sets and little or no CGI. I've never seen a movie with such attention to realistic sets, such incredible camera angles, many of which seem to defy physics, and so many continuous takes. The story, alone, may have been worth 8 stars. The production values and cinematography were worth another 8. which is to say that I'd give this movie 16 stars if I were allowed. I thought that "Saving Private Ryan" was a perfect war movie, but it's not perfect compared to this one. BTW, Stephen Spielberg's production company was much involved with both. If Sam Mendes and Spielberg can ever outdo this flick, it will be a miracle.
1917, if released before Jan 1, would have easily cracked my top 5 films of the year, and more than likely made it into my top films of the decade list as well. A brilliant display of filmmaking from top to bottom, an emotional ride in a war film that I haven't felt since probably Saving Private Ryan (but Dunkirk may have something to say about that), and simply one of the most visceral movie-going experiences I can ever remember having. The movie barely takes a second to breathe, and its during those few minutes that I often realized how sore my a** was from being stuck in the same viewing position for a good 45 minute stretch. Roger Deakins and Sam Mendes deserve a ton of credit for their insistence that the film be presented as if it were one-shot, when in fact it's more than likely around 8-12 long takes. It truly creates an environment in the theater that will be hard to replicate. And even the lead performances and bit parts from well-known actors are extremely well handled and meticulously crafted. Make no mistake, 1917 is an absolute masterpiece.10/10
Have played numerous games based on WW1. This is was the first time I felt deeply how futile war is. The emotion,the craziness, the hysteria and the sorrows of war. This movie captures war in its true entirety. I expected something like this from Dunkirk but kudos to Sam Mendes you have out done everyone. Easily the best movie of the year.
Cinematic wizardry worth watching on a big screen.
This is quite possibly, no wait, this is the worst ever depiction on film of World War 1 and thus does a great disservice to the memories of those men who lost their lives in the Great War. So totally unrealistic, terrible cringe worthy acting and desperately trying to be PC it made me sad to have wasted two hours watching it.
The boredom and ww1 propaganda (in 2019 :)) is unbearable...
Third time asleep during movie decided I better go find a bed.
I thought this movie would show some action, there was none. I was very disappointed. Watched the whole thing hoping to see some military fighting, but none. This is Truly a waste of time movie.
I wanted to like this. However, to me, it was unrealistic and boring. No offense intended to the person or persons it was based on. Unrealistic, IMHO, a person can not be shot at that many times and NOT get hit....can not have a tunnel of rocks collapse on you and NOT get hurt.....can not dive into a ravine and go over a waterfall and come out unscathed with all paperwork and photos safe and well....hummm.....nope..
The cinematography of the film was great like all major motion pictures. The acting, however, was unbearable at times. I'm not sure if it was the dialogue or the actors at fault but it made the most dramatic scenes laughable. Action shots at scenes with little/no dialogue felt like an award winning film while some scenes of the 2 main actors speaking felt like I was watching a school play.
The movie starts off slowly hampered by unnecessary dialogue. Whilst the camera work is terrific, the movie lacks both drama and tension and the action scenes are below par.
With all the emphasis placed on making the movie realistic, which they did, the movie makers missed the target with the story line.
Unlikable characters with aimless dignity that was not sold by it's story or actors.
Plain, pale, plot hole-ridden, incredibly overrated. No doubt the cinematography is good, but the story is soulless.O how I miss the time of Saving Private Ryan!
NEWSFLASH!! 1917 is nothing more than just another movie. It's an amalgam of the marathon legend born from the Ancient Greeks' battle against the Persians - and a script born from a 12-year-old boy's daydreaming fantasy of being a hero by defying all odds. It's all wrapped up into a format akin to a non-interactive video game. It's a 6/10 from me, and I'm being quite generous at that!!
6 stars for the setting, and the cinematography
0 stars for the story and actingStory
Germans left their trenches, British phone lines cut, 2 soldiers have to deliver a message behind enemy lines. We have seen this in Saving Private Ryan, only difference here: The soldiers know where the recipient of the message is located. On their way they see friendly aircraft, at least 2 times flying over them. My question: Why didn't the aircraft drop these messages? Story would be over.Acting: While George MacKay delivered an okay-ish performance, Dean-Charles Chapman was ridiculous. He is just too immature for this role.. his character came over like a baby.. I didn't buy it and in my eyes it was pretty unauthentic.It is good for a watch, I just wonder why they picked this poor story, (which we already saw in Saving Private Ryan) for this beautifully shot film.
This movie is very well shot, but the exaltation ends when the rat triggers the trap. The explosion leaves the two soldiers unharmed, but is still is strong enough to collapse the large shelter and underground tunnel, built to withstand heavy artillery fire for hours and days?
And it's downhill from there. The whole movie is like a shooter game where the protagonist is stumbling from one fight to the next. Except that computer games do a better job of connecting the little adventures. The lowlights have been mentioned too often already: Cow, milk, plane, pilot, dead buddy, but at least we got milk for a sidequest. Brits appear and disappear. Countersniping the worst sniper ever. Enemy soldier rushing. Mother with a baby, and she needs "lait"! YES, 150XP.
Enough already,
1917 captured the beauty of the French landscape and showed how war could transform beauty into a snarl of death, ugliness and destruction.Special effects, editing and costumes were well done yet acting lacked a certain degree of engagement and I had the experience I'd been watching actors instead of people, especially the Germans who had virtually no depth whatsoever, generically depicted as being stupid, evil and incompetent.Other reviewers had compared 1917 to WW1's answer to Saving Private Ryan. Nothing could be further from the truth. Saving Private Ryan portrayed depth of story, multifaceted characters, nuance and humor, and it was a film that operated simultaneously on multiple levels, whereas 1917 possessed none of these qualities. With war movies like Ryan, Deer Hunter and Apocalypse Now I left the theater jolted into an altered state; the savagery of war left left me with a gaping hole and it required time to heal. WIth 1917 the echo of war ceased when the projector switched off.
1917 reminded me a lot of Christopher Nolan's Dunkirk (which I prefer over 1917).In both movies we are thrust straight into the action, with no backstory and the main characters essentially blank slates. Both movies have simple plots with one clear objective: to stop the charge in 1917, and to get off the beach and go home in Dunkirk. Moreover, both movies rely heavily on a gimmick: the single take in 1917 and the play with time (one hour, one day, one week) in Dunkirk.In essence, if you cross Dunkirk with the last 15 minutes of Peter Weir's Gallipoli stretched out into two hours, you get 1917.This recipe didn't really work for me. The only thing more paper thin than the plot are the characters (a generous use of that term). I guess the reason for them being blank slates in both 1917 and Dunkirk is to make it easier for the audience to walk a mile in their shoes. In Dunkirk this works since the plot essentially is about wanting to escape a grave threat, that's the only motivation needed. Not so much in 1917 once Blake kicks the bucket. It doesn't help that the actor playing Schofield, who we're stuck with for the rest of the movie, isn't very good.How 1917 managed to get nominated for best screenplay is beyond me. The dialogue falls flat. The pacing is glacial. In Dunkirk you really feel like you're in a fight against time, something which is emphasized by Hans Zimmer's score. In 1917 they don't seem to be in a rush once they leave their trench. Even Blake, whose brother is about to die if he can't deliver the message in time, acts as if he's taking a pleasant stroll through the countryside. Not even a light jog? Come on.And when the story and characters work you start focusing on other things. Like the airplanes. If they were in such a rush, it almost makes you wonder why they didn't send someone in a plane to deliver this urgent time-sensitive message.Technically, however, this movie is amazing. The cinematography is astounding, and the Oscar very well deserved. And I'm quite surprised it didn't also win for its magnificent production design.Although it will never happen, I would love to see the entire movie in split screen, one box the final image, and the additional boxes how they shot it. But that's the only reason for me watching this movie again.Just ask yourself this: If this movie had the exact same plot, dialogue and characters but didn't use the continuous take gimmick, would it still be hailed as a masterpiece? My guess is no.This movie was by no means bad. It was just OK.
The only thing that I was missing is a controller in my hand and this movie would truly have been a video game!! The hero is just jumping from one level to another, one chapter to another and facing just random obstacles that make absolutely no sense. He's even collecting things that might be useful to him in the next chapter...
They should change the title to "Two Many Coincidences" and do sequels exactly like Final Destination.Seriously, the luck on this guy makes Rambo - Commando & Die Hard look like schoolboys. The rules of engagement make no sense, the combat scenes are pure luck and do not add up. Any veteran that has spent 5mns in a war zone, would tell you that he should have died at every single one of those scenes. He's just getting through the levels because, well, this is how the director wants it. With this kind of luck, this guy should just move to vegas, buy lottery tickets, bet on games (...) then finance his campaign to become Prime Minister. He could also easily finance the campaign for German Chancellor, and just end the war this way. He'll even have enough money left to develop a cure for death, live an extra 100 years and buy Google, Amazon & Apple!I mean seriously, the story and the combat scenes are so far fetched - it's not even funny.
Sam Mendes is just making another James Bond movie in 1917. It's a free country, he can do whatever the hell he wants, but the disappointing side of it is that Hollywood is raving about it. Ricky Gervais said it best!Clearly, all the ones leaving good reviews are paid, don't know what a good movie is supposed to be like or have never played a video game...
When yo want to make a realistic movie over WW1you do not put actor that look like they walked outside Mcdonalds actors to play the soldiers Chapman was fat Thick Chicks and Ass chicks.Also how i can believ that a General picked to naive soldier to go on a suicide missionDid you saw the Black actors in ww1 in France?Also many other thinks did not made sense in the movie it felt like Dunkirk that theatricality replaced realism
Over the decades, movie producers have often resorted to war movies as a "go-to" plot line to tell a good story. Very few, however, successfully manage to convey the true horror and abject carnage of war. Not only does "1917" achieve this, it keeps viewers in the edge of their seats with its magnificent storyline. This would. Or otherwise be possible without the masterful use of the "one camera one take" production technique which give viewers the feeling of "being there". Continuity is superbly seamless, as is the highly engaging acting. This movie conveys one simple, immutable message: no matter what the era, no matter what the location, war is stupid. I commend this movie to viewers as possibly the greatest war movie of the modern era.
Sam Mendes' Oscar nominated WWI drama "1917" is an amazing piece of filmmaking. This narrative following two British privates sent on an impossible mission behind enemy lines is an unforgettable cinematic experience. The production design is prodigious. The cinematography is absolutely mind-blowing. Sam Mendes is a rare talent.
This film is visually stunning and audibly stunning. The story is very interesting and has surprises throughout. Must recommend watching at the cinema!
Wonderful movie!I usually don't really enjoy war movies so much but to me this was more than that; many war movies tend to romanticize what war is but 1917 didn't.
War is brutal, dark, cruel and that's the way movies should show it to us and this one did a great job.You'll feel anxious and tense during the whole movie and I believe that's how it should be, at points it made me want to cry and at some others it made my stomach turn, it made me wish for an ideal world.George Mackay's performance is absolutely beautiful as well as the photography, the scenery.
The music was terrific, it was there when it needed to be and silence presented itself when it was needed too.Wonderful movie, definitely one of my new favorites.
I'm not one who enjoys war films. I often find them boring and action-less. So to say I was apprehensive to see 1917 in the cinema was an understatement.Faultless.Mesmerising.Compelling.Emotional.Just some of the superlatives I could use to describe this film. It deserves every award it has been nominated for, especially those it has already won. The combination of Mendes' direction and Deakins' cinematography make for medium rare excellence. It was cooked just right.The attention to detail and effort it must have took to make this film flow as one continuous shot deserves the Oscar for Best Film alone. I couldn't recommend this piece higher. I'd recommend you see it in IMAX!
This is an incredible movie / thats how make you tense to sitting on chair and watch all over the movie , best costume designers and best sequences, and best directions with characters .
A few words, gestures, expressions and the emptyness of War and two non-stop hours of a magical soundtrack saying words soldiers cannot say.
Unbelievable!
OK loved the movie, but couldn't forget the incongruities.0) Couldn't stop thinking 'Saving Private Ryan'
1) Why does an aeroplane not drop a message to the front-line troops?
2) The soldiers don't behave/speak like they would have in 1917
3) Why are just two soldiers sent?
4) I Don't believe a pilot would stab his rescuer? ( I don't know if we were meant to understand that he had gone mad with pain)
5) That German sniper was a terrible shot.
6) Surreal bits in the open countryside. British troops wandering around
7) That raging riverThe best way to understand this movie is that it was based on the memories of Sam Mendes grandfather. So you have a set of different scenarios that his grandfather experienced during his war patched together into a 24 hour sequence.
It really makes me nervous. It surely has its own achievement in one take continous filming techniques. Most of the time I was involved inside the movie just like a one person PlayStation 4 video game (call of duty or something like that) but with their emotional factors and fear resources that are fully used. It's totally recommened
Not as good as all the hype !Not a patch on saving private Ryan , would even say where eagles dare is a better film.Worth a watch though
Its not as good as Dunkirk, but not far behind. worth a watch.
Probably best war movie if not better than , it's comparable to Dunkirk, this movie bleeds with emotion from top to bottom, and by far first Hollywood movie that acknowledged role of Sikh's in world wars, such a great job done by everybody who put together this movie
Good movie, great suspense moments, great sets. But it kinda felt you were watching Counterstrike the game 80% of the movie. It didn't move me. I was expecting something else, a better plot.
With all the fuss going on about this movie I must admit it had set a high mark for me before I went to see it. And don't get me wrong; it is not a bad movie. Especially the technical achievements and unique approach make it worthwhile. But at several points it left me with the feeling that it was very forced in order to add drama. For example the Germans are as good with a gun as a stormtrooper. And the amount of corpses that have to be crawled through that could be avoided is at points hilarious (for example the river scene). I also didn't bond as much with the main characters because you learn virtually nothing about them. And that is something that for me really diminished the dramatic effect. If you had to pick, I would recommend going to Jojo Rabbit instead. A very different movie, but with more depth.
This is a movie that you really have to see in the theater to be fully immersed into the story and see the incredible details. I was at awe frame to frame and felt like I was there in France, on the front lines, in 1917. It's incredible to think what it must've been like living in a trench with a single action rifle waiting for your commanding officer to tell an order that could be your last. These men just did it and without questions, raised their rifles together to fight an enemy. It's something that I question if I had the guts to do myself if places were switched.What was more incredible was the cinematography that appeared to have no cuts. It was as if the story was told in real time, through one fluid shot. The way they transitioned the flow time while keeping the perspective of the characters as a linear shot was beautiful. Hands down awesome.The story had some slow parts, but it was easy to follow and flowed nicely, which made the action scenes feel more intense. You felt as if it was life or death. I rate this a 7.9/10, is it the next Saving Private Ryan? No, even though the story has similar characteristics; it is it's own thing.
Absolutely brilliant one-shot execution during the whole movie. Visually very powerful, georgeus sound and setting. However, it lacks of a better plot, characters and depth to become a war movie classic.
Big production for the crews and scenes. Storyline is simple. Didn't have the "wow" moment for me.
Take a dollop or Saving Private Ryan , take the finale of Gallipoli , ignore the build up of All quiet on the western front and you've got yourself a film which is really good but not as good as the above .Having said that , it had its merits . The story , the cinematography and the craft of the hand held one shot were all compelling .Without a doubt Sam Mendes has produced an exceptional film and the 10/10 reviews show that the majority of the public have enjoyed it . However for it felt like there was something missing or things missing . I didn't feel my questions were answered , there was little background information about the main protagonists and no explanation about how the brothers chose or were given different opportunities. We didn't really learn anything about the enemy , the rats had a bigger part in the film than any characterisation of the Germans . Those who were portrayed were stereotypical baddies . With 100 years passed we all are patriotic and grateful for the losses of our forefathers but films like The Water Diviner ( 2014 ) go some way to explain the background . With a title like 2017 the story deserves praise for not focussing on America entering the war and pandering to Hollywood and the risk has paid off a film about British sacrifice has succeeded at the box office because it's a human story .It's not perfect and it doesn't have the charm of War Horse but the realism of the aftermath of battle give it a realism that many other films overlook . It won't satisfy those who want to see an action war film . It's linear story with an against the odds plot that you can absorb yourself in .It's good. It just could have been better . The emotion of the final scene makes it a must see , go with low expectations and you'll love it .Pad.A 7/10
The visual effects? The MUSIC??? God, it was epic! One of the best movies I've ever watched.
The only thing that can be said about this masterpiece that it is art in motion. The emotion overpowers the viewer, it goes in every crack in sour body. One of the strongest movies I have ever watched and probably the best movie to show the emotion of war in a very powerfull way. Reminded me of Stanley Kubricks "Paths of Glory"
Brilliantly shot, mostly at waist level, and cunningly edited to give the impression of a real-time sequence, 1917, like Spielberg's WARHORSE in 2011, presents as authentic impression of trench warfare as we are likely to see. Not just barbed wire and bomb craters, the two lance corporals crawl over rotting human corpses and dead horses to get to the German lines. There are a couple of overdone sequences which trip the movie into Indiana Jones territory, but mostly you do feel that this really is how it must have been for our grandfathers and great-grandfathers.In the key roles Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay are totally "right" for the story and the period. Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Andrew Scott are shoehorned into cameos. It's a tough two hours to sit through, almost as grueling as a Holocaust story, and it rams home the message that - extraordinary heroism and sheer endurance apart - there was nothing Great about the Great War.
Vets need our support. War is hell, so we can have peace. May this help us be wise and brave, as our fellows were.
Truly one of the best films of all time. the cinematography is astounding, the choreography is amazing, and the film as a whole will keep you constantly on edge as our protagonists are constantly one bullet, knife or booby trap away from death. this movie does not mess around with keeping you tense, as once the main characters leave their trench, you will be constantly breathless, as the film throws everything it can at you to show just how fragile our main characters are. honest to god, this film will make you fear that the film will end with both characters shot dead on multiple occasions, and that is what is so great about the film: it puts you into their shoes. you aren't just some guy in a theatre, you are a grunt in the british army, who has sent on an impossible mission with high odds of total failure. you will fight through enemy lines in order to succeed, with the only possible reward being the possibility of a medal and a pat on the back for a job well done. but either way, you have to do it, as lives are at stake, lives of which only you and your best mate can save. this is the experience of watching 1917, as well as the reason why it is so great. in the end, amazing flick. if you are able to go see it, go see it as soon as possible. don't worry about getting someone to go with you, or when you'll go see it, just see it as soon as you can. trust me, it is worth it.
No one can say this was not a well-filmed movie. Amazing scenes and action; what appeared to be incredible realism. Lead actor was excellent. Story was exciting. However, I would not put it in my top favorite movies. Perhaps I went in expecting too much with all the hype and the Oscar nomination. But overall, I enjoyed it.
You have to see this movie. It is for sure the best movie of 2019.
Entering 2020,I started to make plans over for what films I would travel out to see. Checking for what had been nominated for Best Picture at the Oscar's, I found out that for 1917,the entire film has been opened up to the IMAX format. This led to me going to the Vue IMAX in Manchester, (second biggest screen in Europe) for my first cinema viewing of the year.View on the film:Reuniting from their Skyfall (2012-also reviewed) mission with a idyllic sit in the French countryside before pulling back to reveal the mission that Blake and Schofield are about to accept, co-writer/(Krysty Wilson-Cairns) director Sam Mendes & cinematographer Roger Deakins track them both into a No Man's Land immerse atmosphere, where Mendes and Deakins cloud the "Men on a Mission" the duo must carry with magnificent, ultra-stylised long shadows casting hell across the war zone.Also reuniting with composer Thomas Newman giving a excellent, shredded nerves score, Mendes and Deakins fully display the 5,200 feet of trenches dug out for the production in breath-taking long crane and tracking shots putting the viewer up-close to the dead bodies (outstanding special effects) laying at the side of the duo on their stealth walks across the wastelands.Going on a mission with Mendes after editing Spectre (2015), Lee Smith stays perfectly in synch to Mendes, Deakins and Newman's charge to the front line, with razor-sharp invisible edits keeping the one continuous shot appearance on track, descending the duo deeper into this merciless war.Inspired by his grandfather's book The Autobiography of Alfred H. Mendes 1897-1991.,the screenplay by Sam Mendes and Wilson-Cairns display a real precision in keeping exposition to a bare minimum, instead keeping the war grounded in earthy, clipped dialogue between Blake and Schofield becoming more open as they cross the battlefields.Spending most of the film on their own, Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay give incredibly expressive, raw performances as Blake and Schofield, whose humble friendship walks on the paths of glory towards the war of 1917.
A very very good film for today's standard. Cinematography makes for a good watch but the relatively predictable and clich storyline makes the viewer feeling that the film could have been so much better. Regardless, it is definitely a must see film and a good experience overall.
During the movie I was taken away by the "One Shot" feel, which faded out the average story and clichs. Only after the movie I realised that it wasn't as good as I was hoping it would be. I do not think this movie would have gotten alot of praise if it wasn't for the brilliant cinematography. Never the less it was entertaining to watch, and I could recommend to go and watch it.
This movie should not have a happy end. WWI was mostly pointless loss of life, that message would have been sent much better if the lead character did not fulfill his mission, then it would have really shown how it actually was for most of those boys that were killed for no good reason...
I was very frustrated about this film, because it could've been my favourite film. But badly let down with stupid scenes. I get easily bored with action movies, I'm looking at you John Wick and Fast And The Furious series, this film has none of that. All the build up scenes were all in the trailers. I adore the one shot film and the cinemageophy, but let down with too much walking about with nothing happening. It's like a movie equivalent to Death Stranding. Great movies with too much hiccups.
1917 is an emotionally exhausting thrill ride that gets under your bones every time the speakers go roaring. Crafted with great technical expertise, 1917 ropes you in completely and takes you on a journey from start to finish, in what looks like one single shot. If you thought the single shot thing was just marketing and it's not really going to be like a single shot then hold your horses your buddy because you're in for a surprise. It obviously is not shot in one single take but the work done to make it look like a one shot movie is remarkable. Sam Mendez and Roger Deakins have given us a movie that is going to be remembered for a long long time.P.S: Thomas Newman's background score is priceless
It was September of 1999. I was sitting in a South Bend, IN movie theater watching the domestic dysfunction that is American Beauty. Its director (Sam Mendes) won an Oscar that year and I was thinking to myself, "this guy might have something". Cut to twenty years later and Mendes is back with the on the mark yet sometimes tedious, 1917 (my latest review).Sam's 1917 has to do with World War I (hence the title). Two British soldiers named Tom Blake and Will Schofield (played wonderfully by Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay) have to deliver a message to the 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment. Said message is for the Devonshire Regiment to call off a planned attack that could save the lives of 1600 men.Reflecting on 1917, I was reminded of two filming techniques done in two different movies by the same director. The movies in question are The Revenant and Birdman and they are helmed by Mexico City's own Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu.Mendes takes a page out of Inarritu's gifted, how-did-they-film-that playbook. He shoots 1917 in almost one continuous take and his camerawork is surrounding, provocative, and completely encircling. The camera is rather a stalker that stalks in panoramic fashion, every single movement by the actors. It's an impressive feat if not a gimmick and you wonder if 1917 would be totally conventional had it not been for Sam's audacious trickery.Wonderment and impeccable dramatic timing aside, 1917 isn't brutally rabid like other war pics. It's also shot low to the ground with its WWI trenches immersing as staunch main characters. The cinematography by Roger Deakins is lush, wide lens-ed, and wholly canvassed. Finally, 1917's ending is the best part because it's a culmination and a journey evoking real vehemence. Will 1917 win some Academy Awards next month? I thinking yeah. Out of ten nominations it sure as heck better. Rating: 3 stars.Of note: Check out the final credits in which you realize that the paternal grandfather of Sam Mendes (Alfred Mendes) actually served in the First World Wars. That is in a word, inspiring.
Watching this movie was exhausting, and I mean that in the best way possible because it was just gripping. It felt like you were right beside these soldiers who were taking you on journey through the haunting lands of the first world war. It was brutal. In the first 2/3 of the movie not once did I feel safe. I mean this literally as I thought my heart would give in. Even when the situation seemed calm, you never really felt safe. This was a massive achievement by the director because I rarely ever feel that way in a movie.I've heard criticism about the lack of characters in this. On that front I'd have to disagree. I felt the character building was more than sufficient and very subtle at times as well. I remember watching Dunkirk which I didn't enjoy nearly as much as this due its decision to leave out any character building as I felt what they were going for wasn't nearly as effective as the accomplishments made by this movie.I went to see this blind and I really recommend avoiding any spoilers or trailers for the full experience. This is definitely one of those movies you watch and think to yourself - "how have they even made this!?" I thought they were exaggerating when they said it was going to be just one shot but it really feels like that.Performances were brilliant, I didn't know the cast going in and so I saw some short but lovely surprises, and Game of Thrones fans are also in for an interesting dynamic.Roger Deakins is easily one of my favourite cinematographer (as I imagine is the same with many), and again I had no idea he worked on this movie going in. I knew i came out of cinema thinking I wanted to know who was responsible for some of the mesmeric shots I saw in this movie and I wasn't surprised at all when I figured out it was him. If you've seen his work, you know you're in for some delightful lighting.I will say that I haven't given this a higher rating because I do feel like it is very much a ''cinematic'' experience. In other words, i don't feel like I would enjoy this movie nearly as much as I would on any other platform. A tiny nitpick for an otherwise massive accomplishment.
This movie doesn't have unicorns and it doesn't have wahmen, must scream at the sky instead of enjoying this masterclass of cinema. Compelling story, characters, and filmmaking; you know, just the real things take make a good movie.
Go watch a good film, hopefully the low iq generation of scream at the sky social justice losers fade away into obscurity.
Definitely one to watch in the cinema. I didn't expect more than another War horse (which i didn't like) but it was great. Uses tricks used in Gravity to make a rollercoaster of survival and was clevery sewn together to make one long shot. I'm not entirely sure why, but it does create a good effect and a feeling of being in the action. Tastefully done with respect for the dead, several of the audience were clearly horrified and moved. A few bits were overly sentimental, over explained and unnecessary so only gets 9 stars. Good 'cameos'Features detailed horrific dead bodies, adult film
I saw 1917 in a theater. I have not seen a movie in a theater in a while and I felt a bit of sticker shock at both the ticket price, and the price of popcorn. Furthermore, about halfway through the film I realized I had to go to the restroom and I found no good way to pause the movie. Anyway, about the movie. "1917" reminded me of the movie Dunkirk in that there was plenty of action and very little character development. I would have opted for some more character development in both films.Martin Scorsese has said that a lot of today's movies remind him of video games. Scorsese was referring mainly to superhero movies but to some degree "1917" might be included in that, a battlefield video game with potentially dangerous structures everywhere.I've said the negative things, now a few positives. The acting was good. Everything seemed realistic in that it felt as though I too was walking down through one of those WWI frontline trenches. And there was a lot of time and effort spent on the sets. They were detailed and realistic.I gave "1917" 8 Stars. With just a little more character development, and the subsequent additional empathy for the characters, "1917" could have been a 10. On the other hand, maybe they made exactly the movie they were going for.
The cinematography in this movie is one of the best I have ever seen. The movie seems like a one long take where you feel you are with the actors in the war. Sam Mendes deserves an oscar nomination for the best director and even if he wins it instead of Scorsese it won't be a surprise to me. This movie is full human emotions that were outstandingly captured. George MacKay was outstanding in character decision development and also showing his weakness and inner feelings. Again and again and again this is the best cinematography of the year and it deserves 100 % an Oscar.
The action scenes and sense of being there were good. The use of making ditches for the soldiers and the after effect of the war footage was very visually well done. I thought the camera angles were smooth and you're right they didn't have many cuts. They filmed interesting tracking shots. I also enjoyed the piles of dirt with various soldiers sticking out in various ways. They must've had fun designing that. The camera angles didn't seem shaky cam. They either used a smooth digital camera or mounted it on rails like the do for some action movies.
From the cinematography down to the editing, it was a rollercoaster of a movie. The last time I witnessed a WAR movie this dramatic was 'Hackshaw Ridge'. I honestly didn't look away, it was amazingly edited to make it feel like a 1 hour and 59 minute take, it sucks you in and doesn't let you grab for your phone while you're watching the film. Bravo to Sam Mendes for his directing excellence and also a massive congratulations to Roger Deakins for this masterpiece.
1917 is special. In this, two soldiers are assigned to deliver a message to stop an attack on the other side of their line. This movie is more than just a war movie, it's a journey. It captures the terrifying and realistic moments of war in horrifyingly beautiful cinematography. One of the best ways it does this is in the way it is shot. The entire movie is made and edited to seem as one long take. You'll hardly ever see a cut away or anything close, and it matters. It makes you feel like you're there, you're in the trenches with them. You're dodging bullets and holding your breath with them. The entire film doesn't hold a thing back. Whether it be the gruesome casualties or the emotional content within it. The acting is phenomenal. I can't put to words how much is portrayed on their faces in such subtle ways. The co-writer and director of this movie has a grandfather who is mentioned in the credits of this movie because the movie was made for him and the stories he told. This of course doesn't mean it's a true story, but it makes it feel just so much more real. I was blown away by this movie in a way I didn't expect to be when I came in. If you like war movies or just want an emotional rollercoaster of a film, then this is one of the best. I highly recommend it to everyone who can get their tickets into a rated R movie. 10/10. This one is sticking with me.
This is a great movie 8 maybe 9-10. But I dont put it on par with Saving Private Ryan...I have seen alot of people say its better...its not. Its VERY CLOSE to on par with Saving Private Ryan but it lacks depth that SPR has. SPR also concludes the story much better than 1917 concludes is narrative.The one shot take is what really stands out though and makes this movie unique.If 1917 had a better ending...9-10 easy
If 1917 also had more depth...10-10 (on par with Saving Private Ryan)
I LOVED this experience. I feel like experience is really the way to describe it too. The performances are great but this is so much more about the technical achievement. A "one-shot" movie set amidst WWI and all the chaos that comes with it.What it manages to accomplish, as a "one-shot" film, is a sense of immersion, tension and investment into these characters that is truly astounding. So impressive that, for the vast majority of the movie, didn't even know the characters' names, which really irritated me in Dunkirk but here I'm so sucked into this world that it doesn't matter.It also doesn't try to romanticize the war like some movies would. This is gritty and hard, a torturous and hellish landscape that scars everyone it touchesThere are a couple of minor issues I did have. Characters, soldiers that don't shoot when confronted by the enemy. That decide to inexplicably aid someone they never should. I'm sure this stuff happens but it felt a little more like a plot necessity than a character choice.I need to see this again. Walking out of the theater I was so stoked. The film has flaws and yet I find myself wanting to rave about it and give it the highest score possible. A second watch might knock it down a smidge but for right now, I'll happily love this one.
Awesome movie very tense at times I actually thought I was there with them. A few odd things happened in the movie that was questionable. However I enjoyed the movie.
1917 is a wonderful look at the WWI experience. It brings trench life, dealing with mud, dealing with rats, the perspective of the trench charge, bodies left to rot in no-man's land, and other aspects of WWI to life. 1917 has a decent story that allows the creative team to explore the life and trials of a British soldier from that time frame.
The idea of having a two shot movie was interesting. While the movie was a consistent flow that focused on the two stars, it did slow the pace of the film and it limited what the story could have been - now that is saying it could have been a 9/10 story but was stuck in the mud to bring the story to a 7/8.
The other downfall of the two shot movie was that there was less of an opportunity to bring the two mains to life. It felt (from a veteran's perspective) that you were watching another squad go through this experience with no investment. It still did not lower the movie, but it made you wonder how much better the film could have been had there been a few more breaks in the shots to bring more story and depth to the characters.
Still a solid 8 movie.
I'm afraid that I saw yesterday the movie that will win the Academy Award for Best Movie this season. I wrote that 'I'm afraid' because '1917' directed by Sam Mendes is an extremely technically ingenious film, impressive in cinematography, and belongs to one of the thematic categories loved by the members of the Academy. I could not help but be impressed by the visual aspects of this film. But I didn't feel any emotion, no special interest and no intellectual challenge when watching the movie. In a season blessed with many interesting, original and exciting films, '1917' risks to steal the show and the big prizes - Best Director and Best Film - as it already happened at the Golden Globes. If it happens at the Academy Awards, in my opinion, it will be a shame.The story is between simple and simplistic. Two English corporals from the First World War trenches are sent on an almost suicidal mission to communicate to an isolated division the order of cancellation of an attack that would have attracted 1600 British soldiers in a tactical trap set up by the German enemies. The lines of communication had been cut, and the English generals had not thought of using aviation (already existing, as will be seen) to convey the message, because otherwise the story of the film would not have had any pretext. The film describes the race against time and death of the two soldiers, in the fields of fire, mud and death of the war.I used the verb 'to describe' but what happens is that the spectators are close witnesses of almost everything that happens during the two hours of action, and the merit is the technical ability to use the long frames (although not really one shot as sometimes advertized) and the close camera perspective. The most appropriate term can be borrowed from the field of virtual reality and it is 'immersive experience'. '1917' represents a formidable immersive and cinematic experience, succeeding in introducing its viewers to the nightmares of the war trenches. However, the action is simplistic as in a trivial action movie, the characters are one-dimensional and stereotypes are not avoided, and even the presence of well-known actors in the role of the commanders who send soldiers in the risky mission fails to elevate the film to a human dimension. The comparison with the great war and anti-war films related to ww1 makes no sense. Perhaps also due to the technological promotion of the film, the viewers are prepared to watch the movements of the camera and forget (or have not many reasons) to feel emotion. I think that '1917' deserves the Academy Award for cinematography that it will get. But I'm afraid he'll get a lot more.
This is just your run of the mill war movie. I've seen many like this but this one is hyped (I'm somehow trying to quote a great war movie here, Full Metal Jacket).This is just so average plot wise and it's very slow paced. It was realistic and cinematography is excellent. The characters were in many ways well executed. SFX were really good and costumes and atmosphere was very cool.I liked the movie and thought it was very good but I just don't get the hype. Why did this movie win the Golden Globe over the Joker is just something I find hard to belief because I have found the awards credible so far.The plot is quite shallow and the movie is forgettable. It's similar to Saving Private Ryan in many ways but just not as good. This movie is easy to watch and does not demand anything from the audience. 10 year old can enjoy it just as much as hardened combat veteran so maybe the very broad appeal of the movie is the reason for why it's so hyped.Go see it I recommend the movie. Don't expect to much and just enjoy on face value as yet just another cool but forgettable war movie.
Greetings from Lithuania."1917" (2019) is a movie during which i constantly said to myself - i have never seen anything like it. And indeed, from a craftsmanship perspective - this movie is visually stuning piece of art. Its not my favorite war movie ever by any means, but its a great entry into war movies genre. It reminded me a bit of "Come and See" (USSR masterpiece) regarding its visual style. Directing was amazing as well terrific cinematography - Roger D. deserves another Oscar for this masterpiece of visual telling of a story.Overall, while "1917" lacks more character development, its unlike anything i have ever seen (and i saw "Victoria", truly done in one shot). This is a great cinema.
Initial reactions - I mean this is a gorgeous film with astounding set design, attention to detail, direction, and cinematography. WW1 comes to life. That much is not overhyped. But the plot often feels contrived. The sequence of events flow into one another without believability. The story hinges upon random things that happen to justify cliches that happens later to tug at your heartstrings (cough - the milk, for one) What could feel like a intimate, character driven war story, a small quest with high stakes, often feels like some like a odyssy like fantasy journey. I preferred the realism and temporal tension of Dunkirk. Where Dunkirk lacked in character building (albeit- deliberately) some may feel that this film took a bigger swing. But ultimately, Dunkirk stuck to it's guns and presented war as it was without telling you how to feel. 1917 often felt like it was desperately trying to make you care, trying to make you feel emotion, and it never quite worked. Very good, worth seeing, go see it, be entertained, be astounded, but recognize it's got a few issues.
There is no question this movie will win multiple Oscars. The acting was phenomenal, as was the cinematography. There was very little CGI thank goodness. CGI has ruined modern cinema, but this is real acting. So refreshing!
The command has realized that the Germans have pulled back for a trap on a British offensive. The telephone lines are cut, and the only way to get the orders through to the colonel commanding the offensive is to send two soldiers through the lines. One of them has special incentive. His elder brother is a soldier in the attack. If it goes through, 1600 men, will be wiped out for no purpose.... including the soldier's brother.It's a classic story-telling format that dates back to the ANABASIS: get from point A to Point B, only here it's just two men traveling through the alternating inferno of the Great War's front lines, and the bucolic springtime of northern France. Effective as that is, director Sam Mendes and cinematographer Roger Deakins have shot it, as near as they could manage, as one long take - after I had realized what they were doing, about twenty minutes into the film, I began to look for ways of editing things together. While I spotted a few, there was really only one obvious spot, and that was after more than an hour had passed.This deliberate effort to make this movie in this manner clearly has a point. It is a constant barrage, one long cinematic sentence that must be swallowed whole. It forces the viewer to take it all in in one piece, giving, perhaps, a hint of the overwhelming sensory overload of this struggle to get through.It certainly worked on me.
A pure cinematic achievement. I was only born when the first The Lord of The Rings (2001) came into theaters and I truly believe I am feeling how the rest of the world did when they first saw Middle Earth.1917 is a breathtaking, heart pulsing and technically outstanding film that based on its creation alone, deserves your attention. This film is beyond words, direction, cinematography, performance, editing, sound are all at the highest of qualities.Recently knighted (and deservedly so) Sam Mendes has crafted a masterpiece, his magnum opus, a personal film for him that follows admittedly a simple story that follows war film beats that we are familiar with but the presentation of this beats are anything but simple.The direction and creation of this film is beyond anything I've seen, it is a true experience. Roger Deakins (if he hasn't already) cements himself as the best cinematographer of all time, aided by editor Lee Smith's crafty tricks.Sound is used superbly, at times it is loud, boisterous but Mendes knows how to use the nuance of sound and does so when needed. The costume and overall production is acute and precise with attention to detail being of upmost importance.The score was great although I did find a lack of cohesiveness with it.The performances are sublime, George MacKay proves himself yet again after star making turns in Pride (2014) and Captain Fantastic (2016). Dean Charles Chapman from Game of Thrones fame is great in his role but I believe he still has a way to go.Strong nuanced support from Mark Strong (as usual), Daniel Mays, Andrew Scott, Adrian Scarborough Benedict Cumberbatch and Colin Firth. Whilst Richard Madden is the cherry on top appearing in the final scene.Historically it was great to see Sikh soldiers (my own religion) after being omitted from Dunkirk (2017) despite their relevance in the events.This film is just a great feat of filmmaking. At one point I cried purely because of how brilliantly this film was made. Sam Mendes has created a cinematic masterpiece, one that must be seen to be believed, I urge everyone to see it as it is some of the purest, brilliant and unbelievable filmmaking in recent memory.It will be long before another film, let alone a war film leaves its audience the way it did mine. Heart racing literal hours after viewing, hands trembling but completely and utterly appreciative of the gifted filmmaking we bore witness to.1917 is a gift to cinema.
I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. It is just a feast for the eyes. I have only two critical points here:1. There is little to no character development.2. The portrayal of the Germans is too stereotypical and seems to confuse WWI with WWII
This movie had the worst acting and it was stupid if u like movies ask my opinion. A Robot must of gave this movie Great Ratings cause when I tell u it sucked. U know what go ahead and waste ur money cause u was Bored
I really can't understand how this film won any award for best picture. 2019 provided many films that are far better than this one. Technically it is very good, but the story is extremely poor. If the intentions of its makers is to show how bad war is for people, this is a very worn out goal that was much better delivered by many war films before, especially "saving private Ryan".
In my opinion, it does not deserve at all to be nominated for a best picture category in any kind of awards, but we certainly live in a very biased and unfair world, where real talents still didn't get the recognition they deserve.
The Joker is a much much much better film.
The film is very well made. The cinematography is great. The way it is presented as a one take film is amazing. The suspense is kept well. But in the end it's a bit boring. They run nine miles. One dies. One meets a French girl with a baby that is not hers and that just seems unnecessary. The soundtrack misses now and then and then the film is over. Beautifully shot, but boring in the end. A 6. A big 6 but not a 7.
I could do well making a (Top 5 movie) copy, say Kindler's List, or 1915- and use the same premise... but how inventive and creative would that be? Already proven to be exceptional, the SPR formula is a War masterpiece- but to call this movie an achievement, well, not really, as it's been done before. I like the movie, a lot. It just seems that folks making the big bucks in cinema today, should be paid to 'Innovate'... not Imitate.
All the time I was staring at nothing. It wasn't interesting. There were no women present. There was no human sexuality present as a corruptive presence, but it was a bodily fact that the dripping corpses of the soldiers knew enough wisdom to be teasing the temptive toasts to their amazing friends called the boms at home. Barely did the camera ever leave the sanctuary of wine with mud and water among German bombs and dreams to talk to the dying in what they were doing. I mean, really. How the heck can a little more time of fragments of shellshock under the skin of problem make use of sex in the woods where the challenge for the brother was most likely to find the other although the three years of request coming before we're rejecting his own situation over the other; now where to find but to complain about the nonsense of his wife, embarrassing to recognize a simple tree on the program with her clothes on. Yuck yuck for such a movie.
This did a lot of things right visually but let itself down as a film
"1917" is a new movie, an American/British co-production from 2019, that was directed by Oscar winner Sam Mendes and he is also one of the two writers in charge of the script here, which is definitely not usual at all because this is his very first writing credit and this really makes me say: "Why oh why Sam did you not start penning film scripts earlier?" The outcome is really good and after seeing it, I am not too surprised that it is one of the big players this awards season and really took ceremonies by storm lately the way it won Best Drama at the Golden Globes, in what was definitely considered an upset. And won the PGA Award not much later. So you can probably say that this is the film to beat at the Oscars, even if Tarantino is also still in a good spot and I must say even if I liked this film here, I like Tarantino's work still a bit more. I still think it is better than Scorsese's newest as well as the overrated Parasite. But we talked about that one on another occasion. Now let me say a bit about these almost 2 hours we have here. The number in the title is of course a reference to the year 1917, during which World War I was still taking place, so this is a war movie from beginning to end and that makes it even more surprising that I really liked it you can say because this is perhaps my least favorite genre. So if you enjoy war-themed movies you will like this one even more. Then again, seeing all the horror, it is probably more of an anti-war film than a war movie by definition, just like Apocalypse Now for example. The cast includes some big names, but at the center of it all there are two young actors in the first half, and one of them in the second half and both are no big names. So a similar approach to Nolan's (overrated) Dunkirk, but even there the famous actors (like Hardy) had more screen time. The somewhat big names here are Firth (early on) and Cumberbatch (at the end) and maybe you will recognize Andrew Scott too, who is part of it early on. Or Mark Strong. Firth I liked. He usually plays sensitive characters, but he can pull off "tough" as well. Cumberbatch I just cannot see as a gritty soldier, especially not as the one who commands a unit, come on. Then again I don't think too highly of him as an actor anyway. Scott and Strong were fine.Now a few words, however, on the two young actors at the center here. They really deserve to be mentioned because they did a fine job. The one who is really in it from beginning to end reminded me physically of the young Andreas Lust and I cannot imagine I am the only German/Austrian who thought so. Anyway, this film is (a bit like Birdman) one shot basically from beginning to end. The action just blacks out in those moments when one character is unconscious or otherwise the camera moves away from the characters and this way they could have made it work. Of course, this was not all recorded in 2 hours and then it's a wrap. But it feels that way and that is why it is a success. It is so nicely written, I said that before, but it deserves to be said again. There are many very good moments that show how much attention to detail is included in this film. Just pay attention to how the guys are joking about trying to do a parody of a superior officer, but our hero just sits there with a really sad face expression due to what happened a little earlier. Or also this refers for example to the frame that includes how the older from the two sits in the grass next to a tree very early on and then also after the film when his big mission is over and he managed to warn the batallion. Or the mouse/rat scene with the animal falling down and running away and this way causing the explosion. Now that was really one of the most tense moments of the film, also how one character saves the other's life after that. Or not much later when we have the scene with the German pilot and his knife and he actually stabs one of the two and kills him before getting shot himself and this was such a shocking moment when you realize the kind-hearted boy from the two, who loves telling stories and who has a brother he loves very much and who has a mother/family that owns a garden etc., is actually about to die because you thought it is his mission to save his brother and everybody else in his batallion, but nope. It is the other who moves to the center of it all consequently and if you take a look at how he questions the entire mission after almost being killed and asks his friend why oh why did he pick him, there was some slight foreshadowing you can say. Oh well, I say that now. When the other kid was killed (in what was even a tragically altruist death because he (unlike the final one central character who just wanted to let him die) tried to save the enemy soldier's life and got attacked immediately afterwards), I did not think about it like that at all, so it is also a very surprising movie. Anyway, the one central character finally accepted the difficult task as we see when he pushed the other soldiers to really get the car moving out of the mud. Unfortunately, this was also the last scene of the film that really really impressed me and when he leaves this group, it gets a bit worse (or not as good anymore as everything before that I would say). Probably it is just personal taste, but the scenes with the French woman and child as well as all the German soldiers did not do that much for me sadly, even if they were technically flawless. There is no denying there. Also let me say that in these parts they nicely elaborated on the man vs. man (1v1) component and that was definitely executed convincingly, most of all the scene with one soldier who fires at our hero from far above.It stays a tense movie for sure, it just goes one step back from great to good I would say and then there is Cumberbatch too, which is not helping. Okay he is not bad or anything, but everything/everybody else is just better. Let me put it like that. So sadly, when eventually he meets his late buddy's brother, who is alive and well, it was not as emotional for me as it could have been. Nonetheless, I want to say again that there are so many quality moments that are also informative like when we find out why the Germans killed the cows or that there are soldiers in the British army with all kinds of ethnicities and colors and that made them strong too because the Germans (obviously with their take on race) do not have that. Two more things I want to mention are the really really good soundtrack and it would be nice if that one wins the Oscar and not the one from Joker and the second thing is the high-level cinematography. Roger Deakins. Do I need to say more? Glad that he does not have to wait for his second Oscar as long as for his first. He is safe for the win really. Finally, a few words on the two young men again. I think it has been a while since I saw a better example of friendship in film with how they interact and support each other and even save each other at times. And how of course the main character's journey was not only to save his comrades, but also to fulfill his friend's last wish and with that I do not only mean the letter to the mother. But even in the face of all that, we should not forget that our hero has his own fate and family and does not only exist to fulfill the fallen's last wish(es). We see that with the photos at the very end and the wish written on them. Also much better this way really than maybe them coming up with a romance story with the French girl or so. The film did not need that. But it needed their inclusion and we see that even with all the soldiers dying, there were also so so many casualties in the simple population (away from the military branch), such as probably also the baby's mother. Tragedy wherever you look. Every corpse you see, no matter which side he fought on or if he fought on any at all, had their own story. This film is really important because it reminds us of the cruelties of war and we should try all we can to make sure these times will stay a thing of the past for as long as mankind exists. And at the same time it tells us a captivating story about those affected by it all. I can only say I liked this one much more than "Black Hawk Down" and "Saving Private Ryan", films that have been considered classics for a long time, so even if you (like myself) are not too much into war movies, you should check it out, preferrably on the big screen at your local theater. There are so many scenes that are far more effective there (like the rat/mouse scene for example) than on a laptop/television screen. Go for it. Don't miss out. Great job by Mendes and everybody else!
Feels like I just watched a GO PRO footage of WW1 , low level acting couldn't connect with characters plus poor dialogue, stick to bond movies . The only emotion this movie can evoke is fatigue. There is a reason people dont film a movie in one cut ,watching this you will realise . To round this film up .... it's a over hyped art house con movie !
The story if I may call it like that is basically nonexistent.
Movie doesn't bare to show any emotions.
However there is some sort of continuation throughout the picture.
Cinematographic is terrible, and there is absolutely no 'sound effects'
in case you're hoping for a great sound track..
I don't see anything in this movie special, with 5 German soldiers in all movie and without any action?? Oscar for what?
The acting is ridiculous, a normal person would not do any of the things the to soldiers did, like walk towards the planes having a dogfight. The hype of this movie is so over rated, I was keen to walk out of the cinema but thought surely something exciting must happen soon - it never did
If you want good cinematography in one shot watch Birdman or Charlie's Work (Always Sunny). I haven't even watched the entire movie yet, but I already don't care for it. I don't like war movies, but Dunkirk and Fury are proper war movies for people not into war. I'm not gonna say much more before i watch it all cause i might be wrong...
It looked good.....and uuuh......that's it. The cinematography is impressive, Roger Deakens did a fantastic job. But that's pretty much it. Everything else is bland.
Tried to like it, but no. Incredibly boring from start to end. At least the picture was good. But the rest, nah. The plot: a guy and his friend walking for 2 hours. They tried to put in emotional scenes but failed miserably. I usually get really moved by those, but I didn't feel anything this time. I guess it wasn't my cup of tea.
In April, 1917, Lance Corporals Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) are assigned to cross a no man's land and a German line to deliver a message from General Erinmore (Colin Firth) to Colonel Mackenzie (Benedict Cumberbatch) calling off an attack to the German front. The military intelligence had concluded that the Germans have prepared a mortal trap that will kill one thousand and six hundred soldiers including Blake's big brother Lieutenant Joseph Blake (Richard Madden). Will they succeed in their journey?"1917" is a good war movie but overrated with the nomination to the Oscar. The masterpiece "Paths of Glory" is also based on a World War I drama and is better and better, but was not nominated to the Oscar. "Joyeux Nol" that is also better than "1917" at least was nominated to the Oscar. "1917" has good direction, performances, sets and special effects and is also worthwhile watching. But not with the expectation of an Oscar nominated film. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "1917"
Wonderful performances by the two lead actors drive a very entertaining and believable plot that manages to keep you tense and engage for the duration of the film.
Photography is gorgeous, and is accompanied by an amazing music score and even better cinematography. For me this is the true Best Picture of the 2020 oscars. Amazing experience that I definitely will repeat.
The only thing bad about this movie was that i didn't get to enjoy the "after-taste" due to learning of the untimely death of Kobe Bryant as soon as I left the theater.
#Mamba4Ever
So, the historical war dramas have finally got their first entry that can truly be described as a blockbuster format. All flair, no substance.The movie relies entirely on its ability to keep you glued to the screen regardless of the weak characters, the plot holes and the leaps in logic the movie gleefully undertakes for the sake of moving the story towards its underwhelming conclusion.Deus ex Machinas? Check, every 30 minutes or so. Redshirts? Check. Stormtroopers as enemies? Check. Flat dialogue and unreasonable statements? Check and check. Even cheesy one-liners make an appearance.On the plus side, the movie is shot beautifully. The faux long take really works and makes you feel like you can't get your eyes off the screen lest you miss some important detail. The CGI is not top of the pops, but it certainly does the job. The score is great too, keeping the tension high when necessary and jerking a few tears (or at least attempting to) when it can.Still, in the realm of blockbusters 1917 still has some ways to go. I dare say Avengers: Infinity War is a vastly superior movie in pretty much every regard. And don't let the setting of 1917 fool you - it is a blockbuster, not a period drama. Ask yourself: if it was set during an alien invasion in 2117, but with the same themes, same plot, same characters and events, would you see it in a different light? You'd probably see it as a mediocre blockbuster with cool cinematography, and that's precisely what this film is.
If you're expecting all out trench warfare and bullet dodging heroes, This isn't the film for you. The main character fires rifle around 10 -15 times throughout the movie, This is more of an adventure/drama movie about the main character dodging a handful of deathly situations then it ends
This movie is a boring crap, 8.5 god how??? Nothing is shown right in it.
As most others have said, the cinematography was amazing and the sound effects as well. But them surviving the explosion, fallen plane landing right in front of them and the multiple shots was so fake. I thought c'mon they're like Rambo!
A lot of reviewers are comparing it to Saving Private Ryan. It is not that, nor was it intended to be that.All I can say is that having visited the sites of the battle, and walked through acres of white headstones, the movie affected me more than just a bang-bang shoot them up war movie. The shell craters are still there, sheep graze rather than mowers as there are still buried shells, they still turn up grisly reminders when they til the fields.Visit, then watch it again and I guarantee you will not have the same opinion.
I'm never gonna piss at a tree again.Also rat almost ended the movie.
This movie wiped the board @ the BAFTA,I personally think the ENGLISH love themselves and it was a foregone conclusion.This movie failed to even entertain me let alone amaze me and I love war movies,this movie came across like a stage play to me,everything from the sets to the wardrobe was stage like as nothing looked authentic at all,this subject matter is easily award worthy but not in this case.a couple of silver spoon soldiers are awarded a mission because one of them can read maps at least that's what they said,me personally I would have thought any soldier would need this attribute given the circumstances,anyway they set off across enemy lines on foot and they were promised they enemy is gone : )...sloppy muck,rats and dead bodies are the enemy as they waltz through the land unscathed but for a trench collapse,next they holed up @ a derelict farm and silly attempts at homely values through family stories are pointless and time consuming,now a visual spectacle as they watch their comrades shoot down the enemy in a dog fight only to run to the rescue of the pilot who is burning in the cockpit (no fear of immanent explosion) ohhh the compassion for the enemy pays off as the pilot stabs one of them,how negligent of them.the rest of the mission gets even more irritating as we soon see their is no compassion for their own soldier as they leave him soldier on alone...silly dangers and escapes round this off and the finally has a couple of bombs go off along the trenches.NO ENEMY,NO WAR,NO BATTLES...was probably worse than DUNKIRK and neither is a war movie in my opinion....................
Just watched 1917 fantastic film but with very mixed views in my own opinion. I can't say to much because some people haven't yet watched it. I enjoyed the whole aspect of it and would recommend people to watch it.
I believe this is one of the most breath-taking movies I've watched, from the beggining to the end, you will be the 3rd private following Blake and Schofield on a memorable quest to save human lives in a time when human lives seems not so valuable at all.
The tension keeps growing every minute, and you will find some moments of peace from time to time, but the music, the photography, lights and shadows and scenery will keep you in the edge of your seat.
Both protagonists are amazing and even with the lack of dialogue, they deliver a truly human, believable and heart-breaking characterizations of 2 young men trapped in the nightmare of the war.I loved this, and I think this movie will be an iconic depicture of war, and a case of study for any cinematographer.
Hi everyone. This is the first time reviewing a film. 1917 on the surface, from the trailers and from the reviews, seems like something you would like to see. I went into it hoping I'd learn something and feel something after two plus hours of viewing. Unfortunately this wasn't the case. The, 'one shot' choice of cinematography, at least to my mind served not only as a gimic but also as a hindrance to the entire film. I love film and I love films about war. The thin red line, full metal jacket, the hurt locker, saving private Ryan. The despair, the pointlessness of war, it resonates with me on so many levels. This film however doesn't resonate at all. I felt nothing throughout. As a brit, I've seen the first world war butchered, in wonderwoman and now used as a puff piece in 1917. I look back at that day, admittedly when I was young. There was an honesty to blackadder season 4. I was able connect to those characters. The tounge in cheek, stiff upper lip comedy, quintessentially British. Nothing in 1917 resonates like blackadder does. I remember my mother crying when baldrick and the boys went over the top and the screen disovles to a field of poppies. I remember how poininant that was for me as a child. The sacrafice those men gave. It's one of the most humbling moments in human history.It might win baftas and Oscars but 1917 is a poor reflection on the real war that unfolded 100 years ago. Its more a reflection of holywood and the self indulgent, narcassitic, style over substance agenda they are pursuing.
There's no denying the filmmaking in 1917 was visually good with the one shots in both the end and throughout the film done well and deserving of an Oscar.
However the rest of the film felt unsatisfying , rather than leaving me moved at the end I had a rather "oh" is that it , which to me is not what a war film should leave you with.From the offset the A to B story felt like it contained a plethora of Unecessary celebrity cameos that had no real effect on the story and some obvious plot holes that brought me out of the film and back into reality, for example the cow and the one bucket of milk , I was expecting some kind of German army to surprise them as I thought the whole point was that they weren't long gone but no the cow was just assumed to have milked itself I suppose and be the only thing left standing in the farm that came out of nowhere. The main character then tells a German to shut up and let's him go when he's obviously going to shout to his friend for help , he then runs away leaving his attacker alive to shoot him which surprise surprise they also can't take a clean shot from 20 m away .The ending also left me feeling unsatisfied with the obvious inaccuracies of the last shot and ending as You would have thought as he went over the trench first then standing up and running he would be an easy target for the Germans but he manages to get to the colonel without a scratch.Furthermore the ending just seemed too straightforward , he went to send a message he got the message there , it was called off . There was nearly no changes to the plot or events which he had to overcome that lasted more than a few minutes and the ending rather than leaving me with a sense of the horrors of war like other war films had it left a rather "oh so it's done now" type feeling that the gimmick of one shots and technical filming could not cover .Overall I think that this film had good technical filming and obviously the long shots were powerful but that does not mask the lack of storyline and unsatisfaction I felt whilst watching . I do think for filming it deserves awards but not for best picture.
Worth watching.
Not one I'll be added to my dvd collection though.
And Indians and black people were alive in 1917 so get over it.
Again, another overrated movie, along with The Marriage this year. What's going on in Hollywood? The movie is not horrible, and actually enjoyable. But why so many nominations? The cinematography is good, but not better (not even close maybe) than The Russian Arch. So, if you want to see a movie without editing cuts, oh boy, that Russian marvel depicting the Hermitage and the history of Russia at the same time will make you really happy.Also the story does not really seem to be very impressive, since there are countless war movies with similar topics -Saving Private Ryan would pup up in my mind several times while watching this- and kind of simple as well (Guy goes on a mission, guy overcomes obstacles, mission accomplished).All in all an enjoyable film, and probably a succesful experiment, but as a whole it really falls short of being the tremendous multy award deserving masterpiece they are promoting.
Every element of this movie was excellent - script, acting, cinematography, music, etc.Definitely recommended to view in theaters. You'll be on the edge of your seat for the whole movie.
No doubt, this is actually how you all supposed to experience war movie that I think Hollywood needs to set this as a standard of the highest order on how to film a story about two or more nations sending their youngsters in an unknown treacherous land to have them kill each other until the gods and goddesses of death leave no one behind to their eternal realm of nothingness. The weak and vulnerable side of humanity in the face of their uncertain fate despite being promised of everlasting but meaningless glory and fame that somehow, in a frightening way could relate to us to the point that we, instead of 'watching' it, we actually 'experience' the war itself by our own point of view. We were there, with Blake and Sco, as the ventured no man's land, the german booby trap, the filthy trenches, the abandoned ruined city, to reach another field of battle where every single of those brave but ignorant 1600 young soldiers are going to be executed by the enemy in the most brutal way possible in an armed conflict.'1917' is basically 'Saving Private Ryan' remade with a sequence of long shots that the cinematographer intelligently put smooth transitions in between that we hardly realize that in some parts they actually change shots, giving us the illusion of one long shot for the full 1 hour 40 minutes from the beginning until the end credits (props to Roger Deakins). I certainly don't have any idea how Sam Mendes pulled this all of, how he made Dean-Charles Chapman and George Mckay endured such a long scripted act that gave us the impression of a real two young trained brave soldiers in the field of battle, this is definitely their best performance so far, not to mention about the beautiful shots of the terrains, how they prepared the set and the other actors to play on their own roles in the story at the precise moment to appear on the camera or interact with one of the main characters, this is definitely a magic at play here. One the two only movies I give a perfect score on IMDB (the other being 'The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'), a kind of movie that I need at least once in a year in the middle of the dull and mediocre money-making Hollywood products these days. Best of 2020 so far (It was released really late in my country, so yeah, 2020).
This movie deserves every accolade heading its way. Sam Mendes has delivered not only one of the best war movies ever but one of the best movies full stop. The first act is one seamlessly put together tracking shot that builds serious tension while throwing in a few uppercuts that really catch you off guard, the second half is nothing short of sublime. Beautifully terrifying, sensationally upsetting, heartbreaking and thrilling it doesnt let up right to the end credits. The performances from the leads are incredible and are soundly backed up by the wider cast and when paired with the most amazing cinematography means I have no criticisms at all to say about this film. See it, absorb it, remember the bravery of our elders ...then see it again.
Finally caught this film. Some fantastic, often surreal, cinematography. Acting was also on point. That said there were a few things that just didn't add up for me - maybe I just didn't set my autopilot to max level. The front lines, even during the German withdrawal to the Hindenburg Line, did not have breaks in it - that would have been inviting disaster in itself; therefore, the need for these two to cross into no man's land, isolated from allied forces, and then into German-held zones, only to get to another part of the British front made zero sense. More, a pilot attempting to crash land would not aim for a building to smash into when there is vast open fields... After which, a full company of motorized British soldiers show up out of nowhere despite these two being at the highest level of alertness. When he winds up in the river, sopping wet with the papers containing the general's command to stand down, he arrives shortly after at the colonel with a dry, easily legible piece of paper. The better way to have handled that would be to have had the orders illegible, and the attack to go ahead, to illustrate the absolute absurdity of the war itself (for France and the UK, and later the US, had no business in joining the war to begin with - as it kicked off between Austria and Serbia, with Germany solely countering Russia joining on the side of Serbia). Though with all that said, the film was entertaining. Entertaining to the point of being worth a $20 or greater trip to the theater? Not quite. But, in my opinion, good enough to rent or to catch at the cheaper tier theaters.
Sorry, it is crap storey, do X or Y dies, shot in a manner which only cinematography geeks care about.It's crap.Don't bother trying again.rating == don't bother.
This movie reminded me a lot of Dunkirk. Which I loved. It throws you in the War instantly and you follow our characters to see if they survive. Bravo to Sam Mendes and Rodger Deakins for making such a beautiful movie. Every scene is just amazing to watch and the score is one of the best of the year. This could potentially be the winner for Best Picture at this years Oscars. And it deserves it. Not only is it one of the best movies of the year but one of the best "War" movies EVER. Please do yourself a favor and watch it.
I watched this in theaters yesterday as my birthday present. It is one of the greatest films I've ever seen. Great cinematography, looks as if (almost) the whole movie was shot in one take and focus on the main characters on their journey/mission. And wonderful directing. Sam Mendes did fantastic. I know his great granddaddy (lance corporal Alfred mendes) would be so proud.Besides my other favorite movies, this one's a rare gem. Its original, unpredictable, outside of the box, full of risks and one of a kind. Love it!!!.Give this movie 10/10.Two soldiers trying to reach a battalion to stop where they are, before charging into a deathtrap. And have until tomorrow morning to deliver the message... No pressure!!!
I'm not a huge fan of Mendes OR of war films. But this one knocked it out of the park! Incredibly emotional, visually brilliant, VASTLY better than Saving Private Ryan (the obvious shallow comparison). I had no intention of seeing it until several friends told me it was a masterpiece. I completely agree! If possible, see it in IMAX.
Okay story. The whole movie seems to be shot with steadicam at a claustrophobic focus range. The camera work becomes intrusive when it carousels, as it does several times, around the character. Even shots that could easily have been made using a tripod still have a slight handheld quality. While this is not a "jerky" film, the motion on a big screen still induces a certain amount of motion sickness. This kind of camera work probably is less distressing on a smaller screen.I appreciate that the subject matter is now old enough that it has no real political content.In conclusion, if you want to see the result of a camera man who obviously like to dance around like a ballet star go for it. Otherwise this is the kind of film that, if I had not be viewing it with friends, I would have walked out after about the first fifteen minutes. As it was I just closed my eyes for some of the longer trench runs and spins.I am not looking for a "genius" cinematographer; rather I would simply like a competent one. The camera should not be a main character.
Prior to watching this film, I had heard some people complain, saying the cinematography was impressive, but there was no story. I beg to differ. The script of 1917 is great. It basically has the structure of a road movie, in which the hero has to get from point A to point B, while encountering obstacles that increase in complexity at each stop. Everyone of this obstacles is greatly crafted, with great tension and conflict. The journey never feels easy.
The film has some surprising, very emotional moments. The struggle of the hero is real, tangible. It's a fascinating protagonist because nothing can stop him, but we can still see the pain, the suffering and even the fear.
The cinematography is, yes, no doubt, very impressive. But so is the script. I really liked this film and I'd recommend it to everyone who loves a good movie.
At first, I wasn't all that buzzed to see this movie; continuous one-take movies weren't really my thing. But then the more I thought about it, if any genre of film fit the found footage genre it'd have to war movies. Getting inside the mind of a soldier in the middle of the war and experiencing what they're experiencing is a great way to help us appreciate what real life soldiers do for us, and understand what they've gone through.The story focuses on two soldiers, Lance and Will, who are giving a mission to deliver a message over enemy lines in order to stop a deadly trap that will wipe out 1,600 British troops.Both Dean-Charles Chapman (Lance) and George MacKay (Will) do a great job in this movie. I've known MacKay was an amazing actor since his roles in Captain Fantastic and Pride. And Chapman has certainly come a long way since his role as Tommen Baratheon in Game of Thrones. Not once in their interactions was I checking my watch, and you believe their concern for one another. Their reaction to seeing and being near dead, rotting bodies above the trenches were just great, exactly how the real life soldiers saw and felt.Director Sam Mendes is a master at directing, and its amazing to know this is his first continuous-shot movie. The costumes, the sets, the atmosphere are all great.My nitpicks are few as well. My first nitpick is something that happens around half way through the movie, when Will is hiding in a cellar below the ruins of a city, and he meets a French girl, and Will only speaks English and can somehow understand French, and the French girl can't speak English, but can somehow understand it. It's a nitpick that I've seen in a lot of movies, and it sorta puts it to shame when you know Christoph Waltz learned Italian to prepare for his role as Hans Landa in Inglorious Basterds. My other nitpick is some of the marketing material, specifically (spoilers) at the end of the movie when Will is running through the field to get to the army commander with the message; I already saw it in the trailer, and after the opening trench scene ended I knew one or both of them would make it to the end anyway, so some of the tension disappeared at that point.It was also nice seeing Colin Firth, Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Richard Madden in this movie too. I'd even say this movie gave me more than Saving Private Ryan did. 9 out of 10, definitely give it a see while it's out in cinemas.
Good movie have positives like what a great filming and music oh my God it's make you live the moment like you involved in all of these war .. But it's have negatives like ((1 german soldiers can't shot the soldier and missed him alot then why they should training shooting and then can't shoot him ?? ((2 the French women scene I think the speech was useless and can't get to any point with this speech but little girl moment was so lovely .. Third and last negative story build I felt like it's normal and not interesting.. After all I wanted to put 6/10 but last scene changed my mind and made it 7/10 .. oh my God the scene it was very sad and breaked my heart this scene unforgettable and make me think of my brother and how to protect him every time.. After all I wanna say rip to legend Kobe Bryant 24
This film is a phenomenon, and possibly one of the best war films I have ever seen
1917 is visually gorgeous flim
How very disappointing. There was no compassion in the acting building no bond or emotion. High emotion was only achieved by the use of highly dramatic loud music. The continuity was extremely poor and the story well, was there one. I can only conclude that the people who really like this are connected to the Oscar academy committee or the film Institute. I'm not sure how the IMDB Calculator works but if they are adding up the scores properly this should not have an overall rating of more than five. It's two hours of your life you will never get back on a film that is too self-indulgent. I like Sam Mendes but I'm not related to him so it's best to tell the truth.
Wow - this is a great movie. It's the odyssey of a young solider's journey to deliver a message to a superior officer in trench warfare WW1. The camera follows the solider has he crosses the battlefields, enemy trenches, ruin villages. He sees distant combat and deals with his own battles. The cinematography is haunting, great acting, and despite very little dialogue the writing is masterful. One of the best war movies I've ever seen.
Not really a fan of the war genre , but this is a film that is difficult to dismiss easily. Its seemingly one-shot cinematography is masterful how it captures a diverse landscape throughout the runtime. The narrative, based on Mendes' Grandfathers stories, balanced the right amount of tension in amongst the futility of war. Personally, I believe this experiment is more of a success than not, despite the "best" efforts of any "boring" reviewers.
Great movie, really, really good. The one-take cinematic approach is mindboggling, it looks like it really only took around 2 hours to film it! But for some preparations.
I like the story, too. But why didn't they just fly in?
Loved the cinematography & had me stressed the whole way through.
Best War film I've seen.
I rate this movie
"DO U KNO DE WEI"/10That part was hilarious. I'm not a movie critic. Movie was quite great even though the accuracy of the German soldiers was straight out from star wars and that ate a bit of feeling of the movie. Also i think the death scene of lance corporal Blake was missing something. Maybe bit more intense fight scene instead of just bum ouch he stabbed me do you kno de wei and ded.
Speechless, thrilling and adrenaline rush. Treat to watch. Rise the bar to extreme height. Period
Do yourself a favor and WATCH THIS MOVIE !!!
It's wonderful, it's absolutely wonderful. Please watch it on the biggest screen you can. I have nothing more to say... amazing...
After reading the reviews and watching the trailers , I expected to give a 10.
After watching the movie a 9 is a good score.
Brilliantly made. The one-shot thing comes off a lot better here than in other films I've seen it used in, and creates a genuine sense of geography and immersion. It does feel a bit like playing an on-the-rails video game at times - but a very good one - and emotional engagement remains strong throughout.I've never been much of a fan of Mendes before, but I thought this was some pretty exceptional filmmaking.Always known cinematographer Roger Deakins is a genius - and this further confirms it.However, 1917 just falls short of being a 10* film for me - because some of the creative choices felt a bit too borrowed from recent movies (e.g. Dunkirk and The Revenant) - especially Thomas Newman's score - which sounded like a shameless rip off of cues from Hans Zimmer's scores for Dunkirk, The Thin Red Line and The Dark Knight - which I can only guess were all used on the temp track.Still - an excellent film, well-worthy of joining the canon of Great War/anti-War movies.
As usual Sam mendes brings us a great work, so smart, it is a good too much gret, well narrated and very good performances
I guess Sam Mendes will be again the best director and again his movie will be the winner.just wonderful
It is an instant classic in not only war genre but in movie making. The cinematography, camera angles lighting vividly pop out and become a character in their own right.The story is true to its core keeping traditionally real scenarios in such a global conflict of that era. Definitely in my top five favorite movies of all time
Watching our protagonist slowly go numb to everything that happens around him shows the severity of the situation. It movie also proves you can have a war movie which does not focus on one man gunning down a whole armada. The fact that this is a true story add to it as well.
"1917" is the most moving movie I have ever seen. It is not a story telling movie.
It is a poem - "An ode to a decent, honorable common man".
For a good story telling movie, I watch it once or twice.
For a poem with deep compassion in simple words, I watch it over and over.
I have watched "1917" three times, so far.
Absolutely fantastic movie. Won't win best picture because Hollywood would never let a movie of this stunning achievement win because it doesn't promote their narrative.
Ok I went into this knowing only something that I'd learned from a rumor.. that it was all done in one take. Spoiler.. it wasn't, but they tried to make it look like it was. So I kept focusing on whether or not I could see any cuts, and that detracted from my ability to focus on the action. I know this gimmick has been done before, but I've decided I'm not a fan. That said, the movie was fantastic, and I highly recommend it. It was mostly believable (other than the plane crash scene), and as a fan of history I enjoyed the graphic portrayal of trench warfare. Highly recommended.
This movie is the polar opposite of band of brothers. Instead of action & tactics, you have awkward long scenes of nothing. Left me looking around the theater to see if anyone was loving it, and everyone looked highly bored.
It's long scenes of nothing, where they're trying to invoke emotion I guess, but left me daydreaming because it was so boring. There were about 5 or 6 explosive scenes that were just a blip of the movie, like they had to add some action to qualify as a war movie.
If you saw the commercial advertising this movie, and thought it was an action movie, you will be very let down ... as the commercial showed every action scene there was! Anytime there was some action, it stopped right away with no furtherance of that action, just move along. Weird, odd, not worth the $, and I saw the senior $5 matinee. If you love love love boring brit tv, you'll love this.
Then it ends in the middle of a scene ... when credits started to roll, I looked around, and people were still kicked back, legs up, eating popcorn ...... we looked around like "that's it?". Horrible to call this a war movie, I mean, yes it took place in battle, on a battlefield, but the story rolls soooo slowwww. Wish I could get that 2hrs back.
The one continuous long take (or seemingly so) comprising most of or an entire picture that I've seen in other movies largely seems to me a gimmick--a technically impressive one, but gimmicky nonetheless. "Rope" (1948), Russian Ark" (2002), "La Casa Muda" (2010) and "Birdman" (2014), for example. "1917" has a reason, or at least a rhyme, for it, though. Basically, the narrative is the inverse of "Saving Private Ryan" (1998): risking and sacrificing the life of one man to save that of many instead of the other way around merely to rescue Matt Damon. There's also the added pressure of preventing a scheduled massacre--the race against time. One shot for one man. One shot for him to save the day. To top it off, the shot ends where it began, as a seemingly unbroken loop, with one soul resting against a tree.So clever is this that I hardly mind that the drama may not be the most arresting, let alone enlightening, I've seen over countless war films, nor that it may not be as moving or as thrilling as I might've expected given the set up. Granted, there is the tree as life motif contrasted with the bodies of dead soldiers and other animals in the polluted war zones and abandoned habitats. The younger brother is knowledgeable about orchards, and these trees also mark the way to accomplish the mission. A similar contrast is made with the scene involving a woman and a baby and the soldiers remembering the families they've left back home.Speaking of "Saving Private Ryan," again, though, that Steven Spielberg masterpiece was a technical marvel in several regards, but largely for the horrific chaos of the opening D-Day sequence, as seen through the eyes of Tom Hanks's character. There, the camera's gaze, as linked with Hanks, was something, too, of a hapless, shell-shocked warrior struggling to make sense out of the war and the mission of risking multiple lives to save but one. "1917" shares the symmetry of the camera's gaze being linked with a single character, Schofield. This perspective, however, is unflinching--so much so that it's made to look like a single take (well, except for that brief blackout when the character and the shot itself is shot by a bullet). It's the camera as savior. Note what happens every time Schofield and, thus, the gaze of the cinematographic apparatus, lose track of their partner, Blake. First, he volunteers Schofield for a dangerous mission, and, then, he gets into a fight with other soldiers--twice and with varying degrees of severity--and there's also the trip wire. That two relative non-stars are cast in these lead parts is wise, too, as if to suggest that the lives of their characters are not valued as highly as those of the stars (Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch, etc.) marking the path of their journey, let alone the stars who provided a similar purpose within a similar structure in "Dunkirk" (2017), or, you know, Hanks and Damon. Regardless, the point is that the point of view suggests early on who the protagonist is and who will be protected. The sixteen-hundred soldiers advancing into a trap can only be rescued when Schofield takes the one-shot to them.And so I'll rank "1917" highly because it employs this single technique to effectively harness the power of the cinematic gaze. Someday, perhaps, a picture will come along that will more fully recognize how deep in history the single-shot film belongs, though. "1917," however, does recall the loop aesthetic of early (or even pre-) cinema, by beginning and ending with the same composition--indeed, back when motion pictures were first screened in rotating instruments based on the phenakistiscope, where a spinning series of still images were given the illusion of life. (In this respect, I also like how Schofield looks at still photographs at the end, as did Blake.) Look at one of the so-called "first" films, for instance, "Workers Leaving the Lumire Factory" (1895); it ends where it began, too, with the gates closed. "1917" doesn't actually consist of only one take, though, but is rather compiled to look as though it did by digital editing (and as aided in its effectiveness by a fine score, soundtrack and visual effects). Alfred Hitchcock and company had to move the camera and cut in strategic places for "Rope," on the other hand. Further back still, one of the first filmmakers to create the illusion of multiple takes being but one was Georges Mlis, who reflexively employed such tricks for magical performances. These stop-substitutions gave the illusion of appearances and disappearances, resizings, doublings and other fantastic visions. If the one take continues to grow in popularity as a gimmick, maybe someone along the way will reference Mlis's magic. Until then, "1917" succeeds in repurposing the mission of the one-shot film.
1917 - A BEST PICTURE?
by armen pandolaDo you like war movies? What are your favorites?If you like war movies and Saving Private Ryan or The Paths of Glory or even The Longest Day are among your favorites, then you will like !917, directed and co-written by Sam Mendes. If you don't, chances are, 1917 will not make a believer of you in spite of the fact that it is an odds-on favorite to win the Oscar for Best Picture.Mendes won an Oscar for his first feature film, American Beauty, which no one watches any longer because it starred Kevin Spacey and because his character, a middle-aged man on the brink of a breakdown, has sexual fantasies about his teenage daughter's friend.Since then, Mendes has directed a couple of good movies (Road to Perdition and Revolutionary Road), a couple of so-so movies (Jarhead and Away We Go) and a couple of Bond movies (Spectre and Skyfall). He comes from the theatre and continues to direct for the stage. 1917 is his first co-writing credit.So, what does 1917 bring to the 'war movie' table that wasn't there already?Peter Jackson's They Shall Not Grow Old has all of the horror of World War I, Stanley Kubrick's Paths of Glory has all of its despicable commanders, All Quiet on the Western Front (1931) has the folly of its 'patriots' and Gallipoli (1981) has the tragedy of senseless slaughter. What else is there to say or show?Mendes brings us a war movie that follows two soldiers for one day, keeping his camera on only these two and what they see and experience. Shot in segments several minutes long, the movie is stitched together seamlessly - or seemingly so. From its opening to its closing, the camera stays focused on the two protagonists. What does this add to the movie?'Tracking shots' are shots that go on for a minute or more without the action stopping in order to set-up a new shot. Alfred Hitchcock shot one of his least successful movies, Rope, the story of two rich kids who kill someone for the fun of it, in a few very long takes. Orson Welles starts off Touch of Evil with a three and a half minute tracking shot that ends in an explosion. Paths of Glory has a shorter (91 seconds) tracking shot of a general walking through the trenches. Scorsese's Goodfellas has a three minute tracking shot of Henry Hill and Karen walking through the kitchen of the Copacabana to front row seats. If you have noticed such scenes, then you are probably a film buff.What do tracking shots add to a movie? In the movies I have mentioned, long tracking shots have furthered the story. For example, in Goodfellas, the long tracking shot shows us how Henry, a small-time mobster, has special privileges because of his insider status, privileges that impress his date, Karen.What has filming 1917 like one long sequence added to its message? It has focused our attention on two soldiers and two soldiers alone. This is a view of war from the bottom up. The stench and mud and rats are brought to the fore as two young corporals, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay), undertake a mission to save sixteen hundred fellow soldiers from a senseless slaughter. Sadly, Mendes decides to add to the mix a few 'special appearances' from famous actors a la The Longest Day (1962). The movie stops dead for brief appearances by Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Mark Strong, taking us out of the gory frontlines and into the world of make-believe.There is not much depth in 1917. Two soldiers are given what seems to be a suicide mission which one of them is eager to undertake because he has a personal motive - his brother is one of the soldiers who may be saved. Along the way, we are told small bits and pieces of their lives. They are not especially memorable, and the self-imposed technical limitations make it impossible for us to have a fully rounded portrait of them. In the end, they are just two soldiers, much like millions of others who were fighting on both sides - and dying. And that is 1917's virtue and its limitation. Given its narrow scope, 1917 can only appeal to our most sentimental feelings.The best war movie that I have ever seen has not been in circulation in years - there are some pirated versions available on Amazon. The Victors is a 1963 British-American WWII movie written, produced and directed by Carl Foreman, starring George Peppard, George Hamilton, Melina Mercouri, Jeanne Moreau, Elke Sommer and Eli Wallach - yes, an odd cast, but an excellent one. The movie dares to be an anti-war movie in an era when such feelings were suppressed. WWII was the 'good war,' yet there was no sentimentality in The Victors - in fact, it showed the execution by firing squad of a GI deserter (a scene inspired by the real-life 1945 execution of Pvt. Eddie Slovik).In The Victors, war didn't make the men 'better' or more 'giving' or 'caring.' War did to the young men it trapped exactly what violence does to young men - it makes them worse, not better. There is a scene in which a new member of the squad finds a dog and starts to take care of it. When the squad pulls out of its camp, the sergeant tells the young soldier that no dogs are allowed on the trucks. As the young recruit sadly sits in the truck with his fellow soldiers, one hardened veteran tells the recruit to call the dog, so the recruit whistles to the dog, thinking they will hide it on the truck. Instead, the veteran shots it. That's what war does to young men, at least those who survive. The Victors won no awards for presenting war as it is - and The Victors has been forgotten. A great loss.
#MovieReview #1917 #SpoilerFreeReviewAll the buzz and the hype around this movie beating Joker and the Irishman to the Golden Globe for Best Picture-Drama is understated in my opinion. What a brilliant, brilliant piece of cinema this is.1917 grips you from the first sequence and refuses to let go as you cant help but root for Lance Corporals Tom and Blake in their torturous journey in the front lines of World War 1. More than Director Sam Mendes' stellar canvas that has paid attention to even the minutest of details, it is Roger Deakins' camera work that leaves you spellbound.Relative newcomer George MacKay plays Lance Corporal Schofield with the subtlety and nuance of a seasoned actor and is brilliant in the emotional sequences towards the end.Three very special guest appearances-two of our friends from Baker Street along with the "Young Wolf" add further sheen to what is clearly, the odds on favorite to win the Best Picture Oscar.Do watch it in theaters for the full experience!
I am of a generation whose parents fought in WWII and grandparents fought in WWI and have despaired of late as those who went through hardships of war during the last century are scorned by those whose lives have never seen such struggle. I was brought up on films of WWII less so WWI but its reputation, whilst hidden in hindsight was of far greater brutality.I read many flattering headlines about 1917 but little more, I didn't want to have anything spoiled. I had great expectations. As the film opened, it was clear that it was taking an unconventional path which I went along with for a while but it wasn't long before I thought I was watching a walkthrough of a game. The longer it went on, the more I felt like there was an invisible person next to me with a controller.It wasn't just the scenes with target props, single serving characters and geography which made no sense. Being careful not to give spoilers, one moment there are just two people in a quiet rural scene, then there is an action to introduce another, then two, no three soldiers appear from nowhere and then behind a building, there is a whole squad who inexplicably had not heard a dramatic incident that had happened a hundred feet away.Likewise a scene where that squad exits just as the remaining protagonist comes under fire. Why do the squad not provide cover? Are they deaf?No, it wasn't just these things, it was the photography which panned just as the PoV changes in a game to keep up with the character. There were moments when I genuinely half expected elements to pass through each other the way they used to render in early video games and there was a real feeling of 'unrealness' that the whole thing had been one big deep fake.There was some real war horror in the film but I felt that the video game effect cheapened the whole thing as if it had been made to pander to a particular demographic whose attention could only be maintained by such dynamics.I was wondering where I had seen this recently and remembered seeing a James Bond film at a relative's house over Christmas and was struck by the contrast to the James Bond films I watched in my youth.All in all, I felt that it was some kind of triumph but lacked so much and it is an example of one of the reasons why I don't go to the cinema very often anymore.I wouldn't discourage anybody from watching it but it was far less than I hoped it would be.
Atmosphere: 10/10
Camera: 11/10
Sound & Music: 10/10
Story: 9/10 (it's a freaking war movie, don't expect heavy plot twists and you're fine)Overall touching experience. Full recommendation.
1917 is a film that must be seen in the cinema. The cinematography is where it really excels. The long sweeping shots coupled with some brilliant acting and a great soundtrack mean that this film is a technical masterpiece.However, the plot is questionable. It feels like many aspects of the story and realism where sacrificed for the technical achievements. Ok, some scenes show a fairly brutal and realistic vision of life in WW1, but we've seen this before and isn't enough for the film to be considered realistic, in my opinion.Extremely inaccurate weapons. questionable military tactics and odd decisions all let the story down. However, if you can remove your mind from the story-line, the technical skill which has gone into making this film is very enjoyable.
World War I has been a topic of interest to me for a very long time. Naturally, when I first heard about this film, I took the first opportunity I could to go and see it.I haven't seen too many war films, but one of the things I noticed with a lot of the films that I've seen is that most of them focus on a single moment of action. They build characters either before or during in breaks between the action but generally with many of the war films I've seen, you always end up down and dirty in the middle of the action almost the whole time once it commences. This film is much different and it's one of the reasons why I like it so much.This film is very unique because it doesn't really throw the viewer in the middle of a battle the same way a lot of other films do. Of course, the films that do that are trying to portray the horrors of the violence of war, which is important, but I think this film shows a different side of the grit of war. The mission at hand is simple and doesn't really require any grandiose acts of violence. Yes, there is still violence in this film, but what makes this film so successful is the constant suspense it puts you under. You never feel like the characters are entirely safe. They might be in a great, open field that's completely empty, but you never really know if they are safe or not unless they are in their home trenches. Somehow, the film is able to paint the trenches, which we are all told the horrors about in our history classes, are the only real safe place from sudden danger. This film is constantly tense and the way that it was shot- being made to look like it was all one single shot- helps to directly contribute to that constant tense feeling.The cinematography of this film is fantastic. Many scenes are so uniquely lit and the movement of the camera during the long tracking shots help to keep this film visually interesting.The soundtrack for this film is as awe inspiring as the cinematography is. I don't want to go too much into a music review, but the soundtrack only adds to the experience.I think this is a war film that is definitely worth seeing even for those who don't like them very much. I can't speak highly enough about this film.
1917 is excellent. The single shot style filming was amazing. Thomas Newman's score carry's they film beautifully. dean Charles-Chapman was great and George MacKay was masterful. There were a few instances where it felt dreamlike and the timeline was far fetched but overall I loved this film. See Mendes delivers yet again. Can't wait to see what he does next. Go see this film!
Great cinematography and acting. Amazing suspence. On the edge of my seat the whole movie. A war.movie unlike any other war movie.
. . . with a vital message during World War One, those viewers in the audience with either cross country or marathoning experience will be sure to brace themselves for the grueling ordeal ahead. The beginning of this WWI trek commences in slow motion, not unlike film footage of the Boston Marathon's annual onset, during which it takes some competitors about half an hour to cross the starting line AFTER officials yell "Go!" However, once the corporals get their lances in gear, their quest begins to take on the guise of a cross country event, complete with unexpected obstacles (such as broken bridges or army trucks mired in the mud) and life-threatening narrow escapes. As I grew up, one of my uncles devoted much of our summer visits to regaling us with his foot race "war stories." For instance, one time he led the first five miles of a marathon in Philadelphia. Unfortunately, he had started out too fast, and passed out a couple blocks from the finish line--somehow running TWO MILES in the opposite direction and then waking up in the back seat of a Philly police squad car! When "William" has the shootout with the German sniper by the broken bridge and is knocked unconscious for several hours, I was reminded of my uncle's experience.
During my relative's NEXT marathon in the City of Brotherly Love, he felt himself beginning to lose it again after 22 miles. Just then a senior citizen veered off the road next to the race course, snapping off a light pole. My uncle dropped out of the race, turned off the geezer's car engine (where the vehicle had come to rest in some bushes) and waited for the Authorities to arrive. In 1917, the lance corporals also face problems created by the arrival of a crashing vehicle (the shot down Prussian plane). My uncle said that during his first marathon, another competitor thought someone hit him in the head with a rock. When this guy finished, he had a stray hunter's bullet lodged in his skull! William finishes his 9K jaunt with several bullets in his body (most of them not so stray!). Then, of course, there's the Boston Marathon Bombing, which runners in the movie theater will instantly think of as the booby trapped bunker begins to explode during 1917. Bottom line: this film illustrates why ALL road racers and cross country harriers--no matter how poor--should be packing heat during their events, so go watch 1917, and then generously support your local chapter of BANGS (Broke Americans Need Gun Stamps).
I think I have said in at least one other review, I don't like giving 10/10 as a review score, but some films just deserve it, and in my opinion this is one of those.
I also don't like to give any plot lines or any hint at the film itself, it's called 1917, it's based around WW1, that's all you need.The cinematogrophy is outstanding, the acting sublime. This film does not get in it's own way, I was totally absorbed on every level. Just watch it.
If the men who died in ww1 fighting for our freedom knew that today we would be crying about gender pronouns and political correctness they would be rolling in there graves. take note liberal cry baby's
I LOVED this film and everything about it.. I got lost in it and there were several times my eyes would start burning and I had to remind myself to blink.. The cinematography was absolutely amazing and I thought it was well written.. For those who rated it a 3 your either a German or I think you watched 1918 because you surely didn't watch what I just saw.. Then again you can't please everyone.! The lead actor was superb and put up an Oscar worthy performance..
It will stay with me for a long time. If nothing else it confounds the need to eternally remember those that paid the ultimate sacrifice and serves as a reminder, that the lives we live today are as they are, in large thanks to their valorous acts.
The best cinematography, set design and camera work I have seen in years, perhaps ever. An easy 10/10 for me.
This movie is very overestimated. Its loud is annoying.
Make a good war movie, not a soft muddy it.
Like all reviewers have said, yes the film is shot beautifully. The cinematography is at times breathtaking, specifically the town being lit by flares as our protagonist runs from gunfire. Beyond this, there isn't much to care about. First one of the two protagonists is killed off screen in the absolute dumbest way possible. The next hour have zero battles beyond the occasional running away from gunfire from stormtroopers apparently who can't hit anything. Our hero fires ONE shot the ENTIRE MOVIE. No exaggeration. The final half of the movie he doesn't even have a gun. So after the two hour run time of walking and dialogue, all building up to this hopefully climatic moment where he delivers the message and saves the battalion, the commander tells our hero to "f off"....like what!? That's what we built up to? The film then wraps up with a pretty pointless informing the one brother his other brother is dead, where he is told "thanks. Now go grab some food" and roll credits. God what a missed opportunity at a movie about WW1.
I was looking forward to this movie for a very long time. Within the first few minutes I was disappointed, because if something so important needed to be told to the front line a.) they could have sent a plane to the front line b.) if that wasn't an option they definitely wouldn't have only sent two low ranking soldiers without any protection to save 1,600 men. With that said, I was able to look past that for a while because the camera work was very cool. Eventually though it became ridiculous. Why would you pull an enemy pilot out of a plane that was shot down by your allies, and if you felt compelled to do so, why would you act like he's your long lost pal, and then act surprised that you end up getting stabbed by him. Whoops that means now the only other soldier with this extremely important message becomes immortal. The Germans can't shoot anymore, and after watching the German pilot kill his friend he thinks telling another not to scream would work. There are other things in this film that annoy me, but these are just unforgivable. Maybe mendes should have consulted with actual military experts to find out more plausible plot points. Still the camera shots were very cool. That's about it.
I didn't know much going into it except that it was a WWI film. What I got was over 2 hours of beautiful cinematography, war scenes in all their tragic glory and a deeper appreciation for those lost in any/all wars. It was a great story of determination and honor.
From the acting through to cinematography, sound design ,costumes , sets and an amazing score from Thomas Newman everyone involved seems to have given their absolute best here . Even the rats ! On a technical level the quality is staggering . Whatever CGI there is, is always seamless and subtle and the story delivers more than it first appears . Its an exciting and emotional ride . Hats off to Sam Mendes for going the extra mile here and giving us something really unique .
Like other reviews all say..This is a GREAT movie . There are a few drawn out scenes but they are necessary to keep the emotion moving in same direction .
Will Schofield and Thomas Blake have to get to the other side of the battlefield to save the battalion from a trap . Blake's brother is a Lieutenant , which is why he was selected as inspiration to make the dangerous trek .
The Oscars will most likely award Best Picture , Best Sound editing, Best Cinematography and maybe a couple of other technical awards seeing it was filmed in ONE take .
Spoilers *Who milked the cows in the Farm scene?
When he delivered the message , there were mortar shells killing the Trench soldiers and when McKenzie signaled stand down, how did the enemy receive the same order as peace and quiet emerged immediately .
?
Director Sam Mendes and cinematographer Roger Deakins combine their talents to deliver an epic war film that is not only a flawless technical achievement worth marvelling at all by itself, but an emotional and tense experience that'll leave you breathless. It's a feeling many films of its ilk strive for, but few can succeed at those lofty ambitions of hitting all the right notes across the sensory spectrum.We follow Schofield and Blake, two young British soldiers at the height of WWI in Northern France, who are given an important mission to reach another regiment and deliver a message to call off an attack which will have dire consequences. They don't have long to complete this mission, and so to increase the sense of urgency, Mendes wisely opts to have the story unfold in real-time. Accentuating this further is how 1917 is filmed to look like one continuous take with hidden edits - impressive in concept, and flawless in execution. By shooting in this way, not only does the experience feel smoother, but we, as the audience, are almost unwitting participants in the young soldiers' ordeal, right there beside them when they have to fight to survive. The level of immersion is intense, and this tension never lets up.In fact, 1917 builds and builds from scene to scene, offering gruelling images, heartfelt emotion and a relentless immediacy. George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman are excellent as the two leads, supported along the way by some famous cameos. And everyone delivers in each long take, whether suitably subdued or fiercely active given the context of the film and the haunting environment. However, when Chapman's character is suddenly killed, it becomes MacKay's film, and he owns every scene. Rarely have I felt so attached to a character's predicament like in 1917, but his strong performance and urgent mission almost link you to his heartbeat, forcing you to feel everything he feels in any given situation. It's a testament to the script, the camerawork, the music, the production design... everyone involved.1917 masterfully captures the horror of war, the challenge of survival, and the emotion of loss, and Sam Mendes has delivered a breathtaking masterpiece that will make you want to live through it all over again.10/10
This is a very dull movie. No "wow" moments at all for a war movie. Writing is poor. The two characters are dumb. Too many cliches. It's like they took the blueprint for your average B rated horror movie and tried to use it for a war movie. You know that commercial where the people are running from the chainsaw wielding maniac, and they are trying to figure out where to go, and one says why can't we just get in the running car? and another says what are you crazy? Let's hide in the shed. It's that kind of dumb. I took my mother to see this along with my brother. She said it was boring and my brother called it a dud. Wait for it to come on HBO. Or don't watch it at all. You will forget it in the months to come.
George MacKay Oscar must be nominated for this great performance
Go see this movie. This is the absolute best movie I have seen in a very long time. The tension they create throughout the entire move is intense. It's also refreshing that in this politically motivated word we live in where everything has to push an agenda they managed to just tell a story about soldiers at war without adding any politics or hidden messages. On top of all that it was visually stunning.
Act 1 - 8.5Act 2 - 9.3Act 3 - 9.5
The film opens with a task that holds a personal connection that stays with you throughout the film and pays off in droves at the end of the filmBoth performances by MacKay and Chapman as very good and feel that these men truly care for each otherThis movie is one hell of a journey that is incredibly fast paced and you feel the urgency of the missionThat being said the film also finds the right places to take a few moments to deliver powerful, smaller emotional scenes which hit hardThe one shot gimmick fades away quickly as you are completely emerged in this film and the task at handStill beautifully shot and executed piece of film that is a technical achievementThe score in the first half of the film follows a ticking sound that is always driving the plot forward and keeps the tension highDialogue feels real and the direction is perfectMultiple memorable scenes that are some of the best of the yearThe death of Chapman's character comes as a shock and it hits very hard but is perfectly done to gain optimal emotion that pays off at the end of the film when Schofield finds his brotherThe shot of Schofield walking through the pillars to see a burning building and we see his silhouette is beautiful and then turns to horror as a man emerges from the side of the house and gradually charges our lead, amazing sceneSchofield's scene with the woman in the basement is intimate and personal and is a perfect moment of humanity in a terrible life or death situationSome moments had the potential to feel corny or be mismanaged but they never are, always executed to the fullest potentialLiterally the only fault I have with the film is when Schofield is being chased and should have been shot easily a few times but that is an extremely minor gripeThis is a near perfect film that hits emotionally and technically for an incredible experience
.
1917 accomplished something great. To film a movie in one whole take is very hard, especially a movie like this. So to be able to present the film as if it was one take was great. It made the film very immersive and you went through the film with the characters. The movie was just way too slow in my opinion. Most of the movie is just the 2 main guys walking through different obstacles. The best thing about the movie was the whole one shot aspect. End battle was quite intense though, and the end of the movie was very emotional. There was also good acting on display and a good plot. Movie was just very slow.
Overall, the cinematography of 1917 is some of the best I have ever seen. As for the main character "Corporal Schofield", the pacing of the 1-take methodology provides a far too fast-paced story for it to make sense. He dodged death countless times, some that I remember:1. Tripwire explosives bury him without a scratch
2. Small amount was enough to prevent a large hand wound from getting septic
3. Dodges plane that incidently crashes next to him
4. Gets helmet shot off by German soldier and gets a major concussion (magically heals in 2 scenes)
5. Almost hit by rock in white water river scene
6. Survives falling down a waterfall with a shallow bottom
7. Dodges sniper shots when in plain view multiple times
8. Escapes German soldiers twice
9. Wins wrestle with unarmed German soldier, as the other is co-incidently drunk, allowing him to run away
10. Shoots 8 rounds of suppressing fire throughout with 2 gone from shooting plane pilot after "3."
11. Almost blown up ~8 times by artillery shells in the final scenesSo yeah, a little unrealistic storytelling wise: may fit nicely into the Dirk Gently/Hitchhikers Guide universe though :-)
Everyone should see this film in the Cinema. The way Mendez has shot it is unbelievable! You feel apart of this harsh mission, and it has you on the edge of your seat!
One day in trenches from a soldier's perspective. Sound and score are inconsistent. Deakins' phenomenal cinematography carries.Screenplay................................... 9 (out of 10)
Performances.............................. 9
Cinematography......................... 10
Sound............................................ 4
Editing........................................... 6
Score.............................................. 6
.
44/60 =~7.33 (which I rounded down to a 7)
After reading the reviews on IMDB I decided to watch this movie in the cinema. But the movie was not that good in my opinion. So I felt necessary to make my first review ever for this movie. English is not my native language so bear with me.Pros
1. The filming was pretty good.
2. The actors were good.
3. The plot was ok but could be so much better.Cons
1. The sound effects were just TOO much.
2. The background music didn't allays seem to match with the scene at play.
3. For a movie based on a true story, there was really too much fiction (all the characters were fiction)
4. Some plot scenes didn't make sense (why put it in the movie at all?)
5. There was one lurid joke that was quite disrespectful. (something about a rat, a corpse and some dis balance... don't want to spoil.)The movie good be so much better if the characters were real and not fiction. Make it more personal. What did they achieve with this? Did they earn a reward of anything? How did the characters end up? when and where did it really take place?Conclusion my rating is a 5, but that is on the high side.
1917 is a war film co-written and directed by Sam Mendes (American Beauty, Skyfall). Starring George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman, it is a raw, down-to-earth account of a significant moment in the First World War shown off with beautiful cinematography.During World War I on April 6, 1917, one section of the British army are informed that the Germans are faking a retreat as a means to ambush an attacking Battalion of more than 1,600 men. Since the Germans have cut all technological lines of communication, there is no normal way of letting the Battalion know that they are being led into a trap. Left with no other option, two young British soldiers Schofield (George Mackay) and Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) are tasked with delivering a handwritten warning letter to the Battalion, with whom the latter's brother is a part of. With time clearly not on their side, the two of them must carefully navigate through dangerous enemy territory to transfer the message before it is too late.Cleverly utilising both landscape and its actors to tell a compelling story, 1917 may be one of the most ingenious war films to grace cinemas in quite some time. Much like Christopher Nolan's Dunkirk before it, the film uses the backdrop of a World War to show how every second counts in just about all important situations. We are constantly on edge over whether or not these brave young men will survive any obstacles they are put through, from the rat-infested trenches of no-man's land to an eerily quiet abandoned farm. The theme of mateship is evidently shown throughout, with both soldiers ready to risk it all to defend each other in the face of these hardships.Co-writer/director Sam Mendes, who based this film on stories his grandfather Alfred told him as a child, brilliantly implements the work of acclaimed cinematographer Roger Deakins to give the impression that the whole thing is shot in one take. This puts the audience into the perspective of a World War I soldier, feeling all the claustrophobia of the cramped trenches and the shell shock of nearby explosions. There were several moments where I wondered how certain things would be shown to the audience without the need to cut away but each time the film amazingly found ways to do this. This is similar to Alejandro G. Inarritu's 2014 film "Birdman" and Alfred Hitchcock's 1948 classic "Rope", which were also edited to look like they were filmed in one continuous take. While there are apparently some hidden cuts at times, there is only one that is plainly obvious. I am intrigued to figure out where the other cuts are and repeated viewings should help in that regard.Relatively low-key actors George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman each do a fine job of carrying the film, much like their characters carrying the important message to the unsuspecting Battalion. The decision not to have big name actors in the lead roles works to the film's advantage, as it does not distract from the fact that these are supposed to be normal everyday soldiers who don't stand out in a crowd. With that said, more well known cast members like Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch, and Andrew Scott make for welcome additions to the film playing minor but crucial supporting roles.In conclusion, while it may seem that the horrors of war have already been shown off enough by this point, the film proves that if it is told correctly, we can still be informed of how difficult things were for any soldier on the front line risking it all for not only his country but his fellow man. The sense of public duty and overall determination is a powerful thing, and at the end of it all, it is what keeps the human race going as a species.I rate it a solid 9/10
Movie 7-8ish ...but astonishing camera work brings it up to a 9
I got to see this film for a second time tonight, and it was even better than the first time. This film is a technical marvel. Roger Deakins is the greatest cinematographer to ever live, and he should win an Oscar once more for this film. I don't agree that the story and characters were surface level. I thought the acting was great and very underrated. I thought they were a step above most war films and because of that this made for one of the best war films I've ever seen. The cinematography combined with the score made for one of the most emotional and nail biting experiences of the year. It's not my favorite or the best out of the Best Drama nominations at the Golden Globes, but it definitely deserved the win as well as Best Director. It's one of the best films of the year, it opens wide this Thursday, go see it as soon as possible.
Some viewers claim that it is one of the best war films which have been made so far but i disagree with it. First of all, 1917 is a personal film in my opinion and second of all, it does not portray the whole picture of First World War I. There was no law and order at that time especially before the war started. All nations, not only Germans but also France and England were acting freely according to their selfish will ( Greed, competition, nationalism and imperialism) therefore, more than 16 million people were died and killed during the war as it is known. Great cinematography but not a stunning story but it deserves to be seen in terms of technical aspects.
No idea how this got such good reviews. Worst war movie ever. Saving Private Ryan is a million times better. Only good 3 scenes were in the trailer.
Two corporals set out across no man's land in WWI to deliver a message to a company to not attack, that it is a trap. One of the corporals has a brother in the group. This is a long drawn out story of two guys trying to make their way through France.I was not as excited about the two man war play as much as the Golden Globes. Oh, BTW war is "last man standing" so there is your theme that wasn't worth two hours of gun fire.Guide: F-word. No sex or nudity.
I was very disappointed in the movie ; the acting was sub par I thought , did not like the one shot camera direction , lost creative opportunities I think . Seemed like a good story but we never saw the struggle and the obstacles , the character just meandered into half baked scenes that seemed rushed or not thought out . The lack of substance in the scenes and lack of honesty / intimacy with the characters left me feeling the movie was shallow and redundant . Not sure what everyone else saw in this movie , nothing on " Saving P. Ryan " .
I loved this right up until the scene where he gets a lift in the truck with a checklist of soldiers covering as many UK accents as possible, all in pretty hammy fashion. The fact that his new chums then left him to get shot at 30 seconds after he got out was pretty harsh, especially considering they all knew the importance of his mission. Throw in the fact that although, I liked the single shot effect they were going for, it gave the feeling of a couple of miles at most being covered, not the 10 or so they were supposed to. Despite my gripes, I would definitely recommend it as there is plenty to like besides the above. The things I've highlighted just took me out of the film too much to rate it any higher unfortunately.
Did Brits say "Boche"? Did the Germans ever abandon a trench line and give up ground just to set a trap? Were the trenches arranged in rows: our trench, their trench, our trench, their trench? Didn't the battalion Schofield was trying to reach figure out on its own that it faced resistance the minute it went over the top? If the Germans destroyed their own guns, why not just blow up the trench as well? In every conflict, is there always a reluctant hero who just wants to get home but whose abilities soar above those of all around him? And does he just need some inspiration? And is his name sometimes Alvin? Was WWI a big Super Mario game that could be set for one player? And-biggest question of all-who milked that cow?
Truely a beautiful film for it's visuals and the way it was filmed. In terms of content though I was a bit disappointed. The plot was very weak losely following the 'saving private ryan' theme and there were some 'cheesy' moments with the woman with the baby etc. The beginning and end were very good but the middle just dragged and was a bit painful. I expected more from the hype and expected to be totally gobsmacked as I was with saving private ryan and black hawk down but this doesn't make my top 20 of war films.
Why wouldn't the commander of group he met after his buddy died help him by including several if his soldiers on the journey knowing 1600 lives depended on it? Or as another commenter pointed out, scrap it entirely and just fly those 2 planes over the area and drop hundreds of flyers? And when he wakes up in the river holding on to a log he looks way too alert after having gone what he went through, small details like that really detract from effect. The sniper scenes weren't very exciting because you knew he wasn't gonna get shot, because well, he had to make it or else the movie would end right there and then.
No idea how this movie is rated an 8.5 average, and got nominated for Best Original Screenplay is beyond me. I won't give direct spoilers, but nonetheless the below gives hints of what the movie is about.First of all, from my perspective, they took what was Saving Private Ryan and essentially reversed it. Nothing very new in the plot here as far as I was concerned.Secondly, the movie was way too predictable in multiple places. I am normally absorbed by movies, but in this one I found myself saying to myself throughout the movie "it is likely that this will happen or that will happen."Everything about it seemed quite contrived.All that said, the acting was good, the cinematography, etc. was good. As well, it was an enjoyable movie. But, I'd rate it a 5 or a 6; I easily could have spent my Valentine's date with the wife doing something more enjoyable.
What can i say exept the title. eisiest 10/10 ever
I found myself more interested in how they choreographed the shots rather than what was happening in the film. None of the characters meant anything to me and there's were too many cliches. Bomb explodes in their faces and not a scratch. Germans missing from point blank. You get the drift...
I wanted to like this movie after hearing all the good reviews and awards hype. There's good stuff, acting is fairly good, effects were okay, but at times the CGI looked blurry, buildings at middle or far distance, e.g. It was distracting.The biggest annoyance was the story line. Simple premise, two soldiers ordered to get from point A to point B to deliver a message. The problem was they continually allowed themselves to be distracted from their mission, and thus to get into trouble. A better script could have found ways to add drama without making the pair look like nincompoops. I have never been a soldier, but at several places I could see a potential problem before these trained soldiers did, and I would have avoided their injuries easily.An average war movie.
The action is linear and predictable, it didn't impress me with anything. Weak actors, scenes that force emotion without imagination ... if this is an Oscar movie ... I'll go to just on the theater
Movies like that would be worth watching if left a sense of reality with the viewer. As a woman, I find it highly unlikely for soldiers and officer in the movie to display emotional weakness during wartimes. Especially as it's our granparents' generation (my grandpa fought during WW2). This generation was unlikely to show a lot of emotion, even towards immediate relatives such as btothers, sons, etc. This was the mentality of those Times. Men should not display emotions or weakness at any time. Otherwise, the movie reminder me somewhat of The War Horse, another case in Point.
As a war film connoisseur this one will not make my top list. I've read reviews that say this is a visceral and edgy depiction of trench warfare yet there are hardly any scenes of actual trench warfare. So a bit confusing. Some of the scenes are indeed rather unbelievable and far fetched, particularly when the lone soldier encounters a drunken and young German soldier the former of which raises the alarm. I'm sure if you've just strangled and killed one human, killing another rather than bringing the whole German army down on you wouldn't come as much of a hard decision as opposed to running and somehow dodging countless bullets.I haven't investigated any historical facts of this event, even if there are any. I don't think Sam Mendes' goal was historical accuracy.I have many family members serving and ex-servicemen and women, I personally have never served. I think everyone will have a different perspective. We'll never hear the voices of these people because they're all dead and can only guess at their reality from diaries and letters.Cinematography is beautiful, with long expansive shots, deep and rich colouring and stark contrasts. Their uniforms are in surprisingly good condition.Anyway, it is worth watching, but for me not keeping.
Has good parts and bad parts but overall is a great movie.
Different from other war movies, this film is so beautiful that it make my heart melt and my eyes cry. The Wayfaring Stranger song sang beautifully, the emotions that George MacKay and Dean Chapman acts as Schofield and Blake, a huge set to make this film, the soundtracks, made me like I am in the movie and they take my hand to see the adventure of the two soldiers delivering a message.
Of course, Roger Deakins, Sam Mendes, and other crews really put hard effort to create such a masterpiece.
One thing I really hope is I can see what Schofield life after that.
Because this movie deserves to be Best Picture of 2019.
Because writing - check.
Acting - check
Directing - check
Sound - check
Pacing - check
Atmosphere - check
Overall production - check
Brilliance - check, check, check! Dammit!
I am an Iraq and Afghanistan combat Airborne Ranger. I went into this movie thinking it was going to be like every other WWI movie out there...good but not great... boy was I wrong!!!This movie grabbed me emotionally from the first second to the last. It triggered some very repressed emotions from my time in the military. It was an emotional roller coaster that had my heart pounding the entire time.This movie is a beautiful masterpiece that shows the true horrors of war that young men faced during that time. The sense of complete hopelessness but the drive of duty and honor to your fellow soldier.I left the theater with my wife with plans to go to dinner, I had to go home.Thank you for this movie, it was truly amazing. Best war movie ever made.
A number of times while watching this film (on IMAX 2D) I wondered to myself "Wow. How did they do that?" I did not dwell on those moments though, because the film has an insistent pace and is totally immersive.That immersion is due to some of the greatest cinematography and camerawork ever seen on film. Like an unflinching witness, the camera takes the viewer on the odyssey of its two protagonists. It is a seamless technical performance.Director Sam Mendes had a brave vision for this film, inspired by the war stories of his grandfather. He provides a visceral journey through hellish landscapes and labyrinthine obstacles. For me, this is one of the best films of all time.
How war took place for our heroes they gave their lives for freedom how they made world as it is today best action based true film of all time deserves rewards so much action thrill hanger dr strange actors best yet go see it worth it so much 1917 style wish it was 215 minutes instead or longer felt quick rush though great film thank you
Watched it 4dx some very god special fx bar that standard not a great storyline
My rate for story is 3
for sence 8
and other 6
to my openion this is not great film
If one already knew war is absurd, this movie will preach to the choir. If one did not know it, the movie will not convince otherwise. And, the First World War provides the most indisputable evidence of how absurd and pointless war can be.But this movie is unique in that the stars of the show are not the actors but, instead, the unbelievably amazing skill, organization, professionalism, care and technical filmmaking excellence required to pull-off a two-hour movie in what is two long takes. I think there were three takes with an unseen "cut" in the water halfway through the second half of the movie. There is an obvious "cut" near the 66-minute mark that goes to black for several seconds allowing for the next long shot to start "hours later" and a less obvious cut in the water around the 85-minute mark. But I cannot write enough, or stress the point enough, of how fantastically difficult this technical undertaking was and how brilliantly they pulled it off. The detail required and achieved, the flawless timing of camerawork versus action as it happens, takes the audience by the hand and never lets go.The flaw I find in all this is very simple. It's the question "Why?" Why is the one-shot necessary to the film? Is the technical excellence obscuring the fact that the story and the point are in fact rather mediocre? A great actor can take a mediocre script and turn it into a masterpiece. In this case, the actor, the star is not a human, but many humans, all behind the camera, delivering the film-making excellence that covers-up the mediocrity of the story. Yes, one has to find the courage to ask "so what?" even at the expense of lessening the overall hoopla this movie has generated.
This movie is a masterpiece and is going to be remembered as one of the finest war movies ever made. The movie is not about its story, it's about bringing out a real war scene on the screen.
Never seen a film so quickly establish memorable characters so well. The two main characters have believable chemistry and at no point are you broken by a weird delivery or bad writing. The former being notably impressive as the entire film is edited as a single shot. There is only one visible cut in the entire movie. If you've seen Birdman then you know what to expect.Sam Mendes seems to be pretty contempt being one of my favourite directors of all time as he's done nothing to jeopardise that position (excluding Spectre which was probably his biggest misstep thus far) the way he structures a scene makes it feel alive and entirely like a real war zone. The sheer quantity of real extras is used to great effect to make achieve the aforementioned effect. There are hundreds of extras in one of the final scenes and that shot alone probably earned Mendes his Golden Globe and likely the Oscar I can confidently say he's going to be nominated for.I'd say it's a definite favorite of mine and should be seen by any fan of cinema.
Sam Mendez did it! I was taken into the reality of WWI in an amazing way. The growth of the 2 main characters from start to finish was awesome. The movie industry seems to have gotten away from reality with its love of CGI. In this movie we are taken back to reality. How wonderful. I was pulled into the trenches with all the death, respect, and fear of men.
This movie joins a relatively small number of war films that envelop you with the complete visceral, immersive experience of combat, such as "Platoon" of the Vietnam era and World War II's "Saving Private Ryan." The continuous shot works brilliantly and does not come across as a gimmick. The momentary glimpses of war-weary soldiers sleeping, smoking, snoozing and snacking are riveting. The bloodied, muddy uniforms are hyper-realistic. The pervasive images of the dead, both animal and human, are striking. The acting - depicting the camaraderie, devotion to duty and the mounting tension - is superb. The movie will leave an indelible mark on your mind as it provides a grunt's-eye view of World War I trench warfare, as well as the misery of hunkering down in those narrow ditches not knowing what the future holds.
Phenomenal. Gripping. Honest. Raw.Firstly, lets start with the bad. Some parts of the script were awful and the CGI was terrible BUT the directing and cinematography were superb, really made you feel like you were there with them.The camera follows the two men and the shots were beautiful, never giving too much away, keeping you attentive, awaiting any sudden movements. You feel every emotion the men felt.THE SCORE. The score! Incredible!side note: I hadn't read much about the movie so it was nice to see a few (beautiful) familiar faces in there!
Amazing cinematography. Amazing plot. Cast was great. Really puts you in the think of it. I love tense movies like this. The fact that it is based on a war many don't really know too much about is great. One thing I wonder though is what happened to that beautiful French woman and the baby...? Great movie overall! I highly recommend it. It's like saving private Ryan but for wwi.
Very disappointing that this story was ruined with one long shot. The story has potential and there were definitely some emotional and good moments. But the style the director chose to film with ruined this for me. It limited what they could show the audience and rather than make this a great untold war movie , Sam Mendes decided to film an art project to try to win best picture.
The Production value is just Masterclass. And the way it's filmed....well.... honestly never seen anything quite like it. Phenomenal direction, production and background score. Let's not forget the acting of the main guy.....the level of fitness it requires to do the things that he did... It's just Marvelous...... But honestly it's not for everyone. For people who appreciate the design and the work that goes into making a film like this..... you are going to enjoy this. But for people who love story and storytelling, this movie is not for you cause all in all there was not much of story to tell.... And the celebrity cameos....that was honestly completely unnecessary and rather a bit distracting.
There's no disputing that this film is a technical masterpiece and a brave piece of film making... but it's also tediously slow and dull.Sam Mendes spent so long working out how he could that he forgot to ask if he should.It's unique and will sweep up at the awards but it takes more than originality to make a film interesting.
Great cinamaphotography but come on !
Ex veteran here too but an average war movie.
Should not be mentioned in the same sentence as some of the classic war movies like SPR or ATRL.
Wasn't even a true story !!
Terribly boring, you don't care about the characters, acting is poor, dialogue is so boring and the actors seem fake, nothing about this movie seems real other than the dead horses. Cinematography is bleak and just plain ugly. One of the most overrated films ever BY FAR I think people just think you are supposed to like war movies or something. The one shot trick does not make a good film. People in the theater were sighing, shuffling, then chatting, one man fell sound asleep. People seemed to go to the bathroom constantly, trying to kill time I guess. I finally just started checking my email. Painfully boring film, cold and emotionless, even with the cliched loud dramatic music. I hated this movie with a passion.
It's good, very well shot, very. but it's not better than SPR, nowhere near, it's a well told war story with good acting.
I thought I was not in the habit of commenting on movies I didn't like, because it's nicer to talk about what we like instead. But since there is no major Oscar-nominated performance this year (except of course the "Joker", which should be discussed somewhere else), and undeserved praise comes for really bad examples of movies that should not be watched, I decided to look back at the following title, from the director Sam Mendes, whose other films left me indifferent.Please note that the commentary will consist mainly of spoilers, because there is nothing else to comment on. The only praise for this movie is the truly impressive long shots, which could be considered a masterpiece, if only they were better integrated with rather poor CGI effects, and served a basic story, that is pure clich, and nothing more than that.There is no comment on acting because there is no any reason for that. Benedict Cumberbatch and Collin Firth appear too briefly in the film to make any contribution to the plot, leaving only the wooden appearances of the other actors, in all either dull, or impossible situations. From the very beginning, the two main characters stand out from their surroundings, as they just exit from the beauty salon, unlike the other characters with faces and clothes dirty, as the soldiers should be. They are given an impossible task, which seem only they can accomplish. One dies in an attempt to rescue an enemy pilot without any logic. From that moment on, every step is predictable to the end. The rest of the hero arrives to meet even a female person who, apart from mere appearance, is of no relevance to the story. At crucial moments, he even leaves the weapon, so that by some miracle, avoiding all the bullets of the enemy, he will reach the target.The most irritating of all l'art pour l'artistic shots, that are too many in this movie, is when the long run in front of the trench is shown at the end, when the unfortunate hero runs and collides with soldiers who, like a miracle, constantly emerge from the same trench, in order to get to the command and stop this futile attack (it would seem, as futile as this movie is). It would have been easier if he had remained to run in an empty trench, since the attack had already begun, when only these soldiers would not constantly sprout from nowhere. Or, to run behind, instead of in front of the trench, because there is no one there, but in that case we would not have such a long and beautifully shot frame, would we?Unfortunately, this movie failed to be the anything else but the annoying attempt of an imitation of "Saving Private Ryan," portrayed in World War I. Why the title is exactly his year, and what does it have to do with the fictional event being described, remains a mystery.
Saw this film in imax ,what can I say please go and see it ,it was brill wow ,it's one off those films you have to see your self ,
I Dont really watch war film except saving private Ryan but this film is so good that it made me watch tell the end,
It seems for US and UK that the sacrified men were always from their countries. Why not to tell us about the mess they are doing all around thw world nowdays? Nah, better, idealize our passed fights, of course, never saying a word about the russians and their undeniable roll in the wwII. When Epic is there to justify the Us terrorism (if the drone had been from Iran, and the dead man from Us we should have called like that, why not when is inverted?) must be said, and in this movie it is not. Propaganda from US and UK with christmas lighta...
One shot gimmick of the movie seriously undermines the potential of the movie. Instead of normal immersive feeling of a good movie, you get what feels like on the rails trip following two soldiers on their way from point A to point B. This ride along feels very planned and convenient, seriously lacking organic touches of good story telling.There are also few too many modern cliche's that erode the historical authenticity of the movie. Also for WW1 war movie, the whole thing just comes of as way too clean.Movie as whole is not that bad but definitely not worth the hype it is getting.
Good picture
Good actring
Good performance
Gust see and enjoy that!!
*1917* A must watch movieFalse Hope is not good!!!War... World war I.Communication Technology was yet not matured enough and hence strategic moves needs to be conveyed at border Frontline by someone. Mission is on!The way in which the movie is structured, you get involved right from the beginning till end. The mission is critical and dangerous too. The battlefield is full of bombardment, exhausted troops and death all over. Spectacular greenfields turned out to be a death trap as attack can happen from ground or air. But mission is still on !!Love and hate, hope and despair, relation and patriotism, death and destruction, fear and courage are two sides of the same coin. And you get engrossed in the ocean of uncertainity. Whether mission was successful? What does the soldier fight for? When last moment in front of you, what do you think?1917 , a great movie !!!Direction - 5/5
Acting - 5/5
Photography- 5/5
Editing- 5/5
Background music- 5/5
Location- 6/5
Costumes - 5/5
Lyrics - 6/5
Dialogues- 6/5
The message lf the continuity. How to keep going after a tragedy happens is represented through the amazing steady cam and longshots during the movie. Super recommended.
This movie was gripping, terrifying and so real that I spent much of it in tears, hoping for the end to come. To have a physical reaction like that to a film...I cannot describe how it deeply effected me. As a mother of two young adult men, to think this could have happened to my child...George was AMAZING in his role. I found myself mesmerised by his strength and determination against unbelievable odds. It was like watching my own son endure the unimaginable. I strongly recommend this film. As important to see as Schindler's List, a haunting reminder of what could happen again if we do not learn from the past. I would like to see 1917 again however I'm not sure I'm up for the emotional experience. Interesting...I have a CHOICE to expose myself again. We, however, will not if careless, impulsive and self-centered decisions continue to be made by our leaders. God help us all if that day should come again.
A relentless film from start to finish and emotional journey, there is never a full moment in this movie. While I do think there is no greater war movie than Saving Private Ryan, this one comes close. Expertly shot with realistic set designs and violence, 1917 blew away expectations for me and my friend, who thought we were going to see another cheesy war movie. A must-see!
This is a smart film that you expect battles like saving private Ryan but what you gets is an edge of your seat thriller the plays on you fear of what is around the corner this film plays like one long shot like birdman. The this feels like you are in the trenches going through barb wire. Dir mendez goes for an alternative to put a fresh take of the cost of war two soldiers get an impossible task blake and champan delivery a messages behind enemy lines and they know the Germany a laying a trap for a regiment to get there in broad day light to thousands of soldiers the story is fictional story but risky missions were not uncommon then
For soldiers to complete there mission must cross peak blown up muddy battlefields get through rat infested German bunkers. The swamps dodge planes fights face to face combat and snipers in raging city infernos..
A destroyed bridge near the bombed-out village of coust-Saint-Mein prevents the British lorries from crossing, so Schofield crosses alone on the remnants of the bridge. This draws an attack by a German sniper across so as the flares go Chapman races through bombed burnt building he races through the streets to avoid flares from Germans.
whilst surviving the climb up the berm, there is no sigh of relief, no respite from the fear of uncertainty. They survive to move forward to face more uncertainty.
It is a cinematographic feast for the eyes, long expansive shots that follow the protagonists as they execute their mission. It does not hide the horrors that existed in trench warfare, it shows them for their brutality and abundanceWatch if you will, but know there is no pleasure in watching and the film will grab you and the beginning and not let you go. Even though we know the outcome of WWI, there is no joy, there is no peace. Watch because it will allow you a glimpse at the horror and brutality of war; reflect on their service and sacrifice. Note, as we (the viewer) are "walking" through the trenches, glancing shots of the young soldiers shows them with flat affect, isolation, almost apathy; this is the face of "shell shock," what we know call post-traumatic stress disorder
Edge of your seat stuff
It will will an Oscar but it will have to share something with the joker this film is unique 10/10. great camoes from strong and cummberbatch
I was overflowed with goosebumps and respect for all those brave and unselfish men who gave their lives for greater cause back than. Much of respect also deserve the filmmakers who managed to make such an Ode about this horrific times.Movie left me speechless.
I can't believe how boring and schmaltzy this film is. I gave it a 5 for technical expertise but the story was ludicrous and beyond belief. Maybe it's Mendes' turn to be it but all these 5 star reviews in the press just don't add up. There is no way thankfully that this will win the best film Oscar.
Way overrated, yet beautyfully filmed picture. I went here because of all good reviews. But was disappointed. Not much story.
Offensively bland, predictable amusement park ride of a movie. Professional cinematography of course from the expert Roger Deakins, but that is simply not enough. See Paths of Glory, Come and See and Apocalypse Now instead of this cliched empty spectacle
All Germans are treacherous devils, the only French we encounter are a damsel in distress with infant, all Brits are jolly good fellows. Is this what a century of warfare, decolonization and tentative European integration has taught the inhabitants of Albion about themselves and the world? Great movie, technically, but as far as the message of the story is concerned: Troubling to say the least.
I quite enjoyed the entire film but one criticism (that just bothers me) Stop changing historic events by putting black actors in movies trying to change history. It's dumb and does nothing for the movie or the person watching it.
It really was a fairy tale. The Scofield fellow got mortal wounds all the time and made it fine nonetheless. His success in finding the troops he needed to find was unlikely in the real world. I would have been embarrassed to have written this movie and to have produced.
As "1917" (2019 release; 119 min.) opens, we are told it is "April 6, 1917", and Lance Corporals Schofield and Blake from the British army are summoned by the General: the two soldiers must deliver an urgent message to 2 battalions who are about to fall into a massive German trap. Blake's brother is among the 1600 soldiers in peril. Off they go, Schofield and Blake. At this point we are less than 10 min. into the movie but to tell you more of the plot would spoil your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it all plays out...Couple of comments: this is the latest movie from British director-writer-producer Sam Mendes, who brought us the 2 most recent James Bond films, and American Beauty way before that. Here he brings a WWI story to the big screen as it was relayed to him by his grandfather, who served in WWI. I don't want to spoil anything by revealing more of the plot. Instead let me make the following general observations: as the movie opens, we watch as Schofield and Blake walk to the General's camp, get his orders, and get underway, and after a couple of minutes, I realized that all if this was being shown in one continuous take. Then it became 5 min., then 10, then 15 min., and I thought to myself, how much longer can this be just one continuous take? (Sorry, I'm going to to tell you.) The movie is just epic on so many levels. There are some stretches where there is little to no dialogue and it is then how critically important the movie's sound design is. You may recall that in 2018 there was a fabulous documentary called "They Shall Not Grow Old" (directed by Peter Jackson), in which WWI archive footage is restored gloriously. And in 2017 there was Christopher Nolan's epic WWII drama "Dunkirk". To me "1917" recalls both those films in the best possible way. Kudos also to Thomas Newman for the massive original score, which plays almost non-stop during the movie."1917" went wide this weekend, and i couldn't wait to see it. The Friday evening screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati in a mid-size theater was pretty much sold out, I am very happy to say. Winning Best Picture and Best Director at last weekend's Golden Globes will only reinforce the strong word-of-mouth this movie surely will generate. I am going on record that this movie will get multiple Oscar nominations (and then win them). If you like an epic war movie, you are in for a treat, and I would readily suggest you check this out, be it in the theater, on VOD, or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray, and draw your own conclusion.
Easily the Best Picture I've seen this past year - and it wasn't easy. Until this week it was at only two theaters in NYC, so you had to make an effort; it was worth it.After a little time to set the scene, the picture picks up steam and proceeds at break-neck speed to it's climactic ending. It starts right after Cpl. Blake gets his orders; go behind enemy lines and warn his brother's unit that they are walking into a trap, the hook being that Blake would try hard to succeed since his brother was at stake. From this point on it's like a roller coaster ride with no let up. I was exhausted at the end after the ordeal of the story. It's a war picture but it's also a story of survival, like "The Revenant".AA Noms could go to George McKay, who i'd never seen before, for Best Actor and for whoever designed the sets - they were perfect as well as authentic. It is a British production which is fitting as Hollywood produces nothing of consequence anymore.
This film is a total bull**** don't loose your time watching
This is a good movie for young children around the age of 6 or 7 but besides that it's a complete fantasy, I actually though Disney had made it upon leaving the theater. The camera work and visuals for the most part were pretty great but it was more of a love story than a war. The movie makes it like the guns in WW1 couldn't shoot a fish in a barrel and somehow no one gets a scratch on them when they do find their few adversities. The movie was basically just one long conversation between two soldiers, nothing exciting or worth watching.
A non story that makes the one of "Saving private Ryan" look like the Godfather. Non-characters ala "Dunkirk", but without actually committing to it, giving the two leads a handful of "emotional moments and lines" (some fine, some absolutely ridiculous and forced) typical of usual archetypes and basic "emotional arcs". A gimmick (a really impossibly hard gimmick) "one shot movie", that is ultra clearly not one shot and requires excessive "non scenes" where nothing happens other than people slowly walking, slowly crawling, slowly jogging. And a handful of specially great and breathtaking visual sequences that has little to nothing to do with being "a one shot movie". Those same sequences in a "normal movie" would've been incredible too, regardless.So. A zero for the story. A zero for the characters. A zero for the score. A ten for the technical tricks. A ten for the imaginative ways of putting action and the ways there were filmed. A ten for that handful of amazing visual parts. And a zero for the absolutely ridiculous moments that are supposed to give you the chills.I guess if you were "into the movie" from the start, and the trick one shot made you feel "there with the protagonists", then those moments would've way more impact to you and increase the enjoyment. It wasn't my case.
Battle of jangsari which is great 1917 way let down watchable but not a masterpiece
Making things hard for yourself as a director with technical stunts and virtuoso shots does NOT make your film better.If your self-imposed one-take forces you to make a movie that is both unrealistic and wildly boring, maybe you shouldn't have used it.
How this piece of crap has those reviews and is nominated for 10 oscars beats me.
Not getting all the hype here I'm afraid.
Ok, the Cinematography is excellent but I think we've all seen the story before, it was highly predictable - I can honestly say I saw EVERYTHING coming - no twists in it at all.
Acting was average.
Nothing more to say, wasted enough time watching it without wasting more time writing about it
This hyped war film was pretty good and I enjoyed it, but it don't think I need to see it ever again. The single shot real time thing was really cool and it felt like you were in a virtual reality video game or something.The plot has a Saving private ryan thing going on. The modern cinematography and conceptual sound design felt like Dunkirk.
2 men go for a walk, the end! I can't think of anything else to write but I have to type more as my review is too short to submit. That's done it.
I expected so much from this movie but when i went to see it me and my friends were disappointed. The acting was not so good, the dialogues are very boring, the ending is the most boring ever. I understand that this movie was based on real events and it is not supposed to be entertaining or have an amazing storyline. I have to say though that the way this movie was filmed is indredible, everything looks very realistic and detailed. However, everything else to me was very disappointing. This movie is overhyped
I was hoping for a good drama / war film. This veered another direction and did not keep me entertained.
Better than Dunkirk is all I took from the movie. Some unrealistic plots, surreal filming crossing apocalypse now and oh what a lovely war. Worth a watch if only to enjoy the first 15 mins.
**Spoilers**
It's a beautiful visual experience but with a predictable screenplay. Germans are the bad guys the main character save the day. I wanted something different!
Damn, what a funny remix... But to be honest: they didnt need more than one camera to make this movie - minimalism at his best.We were wondering about the kind of Oscars nominations this movie earns. Maybe "best dialogues". Hmmm, no. 
A boring movie about two guys having discussions while walking through trenches and the camera is just in front of them. Great.. it doesn't show the grittiness and gruesomeness of the First World War at all and the plot makes no sense while the main actors survive explosions in a tunnel with their plot armor.
If you like art style boring movies and want to feel like a critic this is for you. If you like action/war entertaining movies this is not for you.
Whilst the cinematography is beautiful the movie is slow and at times down right boring. Some great actors who spend less than two minutes on screen leave you wanting more interaction. Definitely one to miss at the cinema.
What is your reason for showing the Germans wild?
They are very good guys. Please make the movie logical
I believe that this is The Most Over-Hyped movie Of 2019..
Step aside your fascination with cinematography and Take an overall look at the movie to determine how good it may be..
I swear many people didn't notice James Bond film, Spectre, begins with a tracking shot that appears to go on for a full four minutes before the first cut.
Do yourself all a favour and watch Gallipoli, the film from the 80's. Why can't movies be made in a normal manner for normal people anymore. What is all this tripe being dished out.
Wow where do i start? Of course seeing Tommen from GOT isn't pleasureable and he dies very soon and in the most rook way. He's all oh yeah no body's stopping me in the beginning and 30 mins later he's gone. Like ok bro. Then we got the other guy who like you can't tell whether to feel bad for or not. He cheats death like 5 times? That was some nonsense. Hmmm i enjoyed the settings, outfits, and seeing Rob Stark that was it. The last scene too where that lieutenant is all tough and stuff and then 5 seconds of looking at a sheet falls off the attack. Cmon now. One of the weakest war movies I've ever seen, i don't reccomend anyone to watch this, Honeslty truly embarrassing of a film. If you enjoyed this i feel bad for you, your opinion probably suck and your friends think your a loser. Get help.
This really is the most overhyped film in history. It's OK at best but is merely an ego trip for Sam Mendes.Why it got any awards I really don't understand.Hugely disappointing.
This movie make me boring especially after half duration
It's a kind of virtual ride through a WWI battlefield. It has nothing to offer in terms of plot, dialogue, character development, or emotion. It's just entertainment, like everything else these days. I wouldn't watch it again. Zero for artistic value. The only possible value it might have would be to show young generations what trench warfare in WWI used to look like. Minus the murderous German pilots. That's just ridiculous. One final note: I know what you did with the Scofield reference. The 'Scofield Bible' from 1917 by any chance? Or has it more to do with the Balfour Declaration from 1917?
Was hoping I wouldn't be disappointed and knew better, sigh....Definitely over-rated as the script & acting wouldn't even make it a good TV movie. The visual effects were above average.
I think it is the best movie.... Excitement, confustion mixed up.... Just awesome movie....
It is just an emotional drama, where a brother tried to find his brother but gets killed in action. Then, his friend carry forward the duty to deliver the message to the soldiers. I watched it because it has high rating but it didn't impress me. May be it is good for awards but not for entertainment.
I just don't get all the 10s. This was good, not great. So many glaring plot/reality holes:
Neither of them getting killed or even seriously when the rat sets off the booby trap in the German bunkerThe whole sniper scene, just silly and unrealistic, considering German soldiers could not hit him at near point blankThe forced diversity of black soldiers on the front line, black immigration to England did not happen until WW2 for this type of thing to be representedThe whole convoy of troops showing up after the plane crash/stabbing without so much as a soundThe letter being completely legible, crisp and folded in his pocket after canyoning down a freezing river and rapidsComing upon the Devons without anyone challenging him, considering he was sopping wet and had no weapons.So much silliness. Worth seeing for the cinematography and set pieces only. Go rewatch Mel Gibson's Gallipoli for a real WW1 story.
Frist time I was confused what happened to them but after that, I got it what happen's before. I recommend to someone loves solution key.
Having watched the film twice now, I cannot comprehend the reasoning behind the fawning praise and the 8.5/10 rating. As a war film it was decidedly lame and sanitized, with its clean newly dug trenches where comfort was occasionally disturbed by a shell or two! The acting adequate - though nothing special or outstanding. The Storyline was merely a rehashing of much that had gone before it and better told...Here, there was no utter misery of trench warfare. The ubiquitous mud, the dissembled rotting corpses, vermin infestation, the endless queue of broken bodies stricken by war and epidemics.. This '1917' occurred on different planet - where war is glorified and sanitised. much has been made of the single shot filming technique. One has to wonder... 'so what'? Surely, cinematic innovative filming techniques are deployed to aid more accurate , dramatic story telling.... Given the paucity of the storey line and the insultingly sanitised mise-en-scne just about any filming technique would have done. indeed, a handheld 16mm camera might have greatly improved the end result.
The General only sends two guys to give the message that would safe the 1600 soldiers? Two that ended in one because the other one died? This is so stupid! I would of sent an army to guarantee the delivery of the message! And worst of all, they found a living cow and fresh milk after the germans killed a hundred cows and cut all the trees?
2 hours of high adrenaline, but without a plot. I wouldn't recommend it.
Impossible not to compare this to Peter Jackson's compelling and very moving WW1 documentary 'They Shall Not Grow Old' so while 1917 is entertaining enough it's not a great piece of art or showing any evident skill on behalf of the director. I really believe that editing is an integral part of filmmaking. The single shot has been done before and is always a novelty piece of filmmaking, even when Hitchcock did it its still weak. This film is more Call of Duty than Paths of Glory. Average film fodder.
Just saw this movie last night and it was so good that it's easily one of the top films of 2019 along with Parasite. It richly deserves all the three Oscars that it won. The story, the cinematography and the visual effects all were impressive and amazing and the cast did wonderful job. Recommended for everyone.
I enjoyed the movie but it just wasn't very exciting. The one take idea was the only reason it got awards. Worth watching, but I don't think it was anything special.
This was a great cinematographic epic film that followed two British soldiers to deliver a vital message to an otherwise doomed, isolated regiment. The premise of the plot was to hand deliver a letter from the commanding general to warn the regiment to cancel the dawn advance against a heavily fortified german defense. The result of the advance would most certainly be a massacre of 1,600 British soldiers.
Mendes used a continuous and seamless filming technique using boom and hand held cameras to intimately follow the two soldier-messengers through no mans land and into a hellish landscape of destroyed farmhouses and towns. The filming technique brought the war into the theater. There was an eerie silence in the large audience. This was a gut-wrenching history lesson for many and a cinematic achievement of great mastery. Overall, a brutal, but beautiful film.
There was hardly any action in this movie. Nothing even happened during the first 30 minutes...just 2 idiots walking around. How the hell did this win 3 oscars??? Unbelievable...
This film is beautifully shot. Unfortunately there are so many plot holes it's hard to keep watching with a straight face.
Cinematography, setting, were absolutely great. Acting great. The feeling that 'you were there' --great. And it draws you in. Only one scene seems unnecessary--gratuitous (the scene with the mother and child), but like so many others pointed out, PLOT HOLES, PLOT HOLES, PLOT HOLES, turning this into what I generally hates about American movies--outrunning bullets and implausible situations.
Would LOVE for someone to legitimately explain:
1. The two start out over open country with the distinct possibility of being picked off, yet start with bayonets fixed, though crawling past/over barbed wire WITH bayonets. Later, when in the burned out town with German infestation at close range, no bayonet, just when needed. Also,
2 The soldier runs off without his rifle. To me, this is inexplicable: hostile territory, behind enemy lines, and he's going to outrun bullets and enemy soldiers, dodging this way and that (as he did in the trench, astonishingly).
Thanks.
The close-range shooting by the injured German sniper also bothered me--just a flesh wound, eh.
The French mother holed up with her child in a nasty burned out town infested with Germans...strange but not a plot issue.
Certainly strong points to the movie, but coming off as cartoonish in plot action. Still, the action is compelling. Sometimes found the accents hard to understand, particularly when talking as 'asides' or muttering to one another.
I don't understand the need for some to try to wish this into a true story. It was never pitched as true, and doesn't need to be. Other war moves (Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, Saving Private Ryan, Hamburger Hill) do a great job of communicating the horrors of war. Some '10'-raters seem to treat this as a genre-setting standard, which I don't see.
You have to realise that is the worst film writing and direction.
I dont typically write reviews but this movie was such a dissappointment. I was expecting a war movie but got 2 guys walking around the country for 2 hours now dont get me wrong it started off very interesting but got boring very fast. Great shots and they captured WW1 very well but they should have have some good action sequences in there.
A boring movie, if there is less than one star I will give it 0 or even in minus !!!
The story is written by Sam Mendes based on what his grandfather told him. Mendes' grandfather was a soldier in the Trench War, and this offering is in his honour for his heroic act of treading through the dangers of the enemy-line and the perils of Nature to pass over a piece of vital information to the advancing army. His deed indeed saved the day and many fellow comrades.I am a little perplexed. On the one hand, I am taught that violence is the primitive way of settling an issue. Violence can never solve any problems but instead, create new ones. An eye for an eye leaves the whole blind, they say. Yet in the same breath, the same people proclaim that turning the other cheek is stupidity.All through our civilisation, war has been part and parcel of our evolution. With each significant catastrophe that we go through, the human race seems to go up one notch in terms of scientific achievement. War propels the world forward. War stimulates the economy, and the desire to dominate is one thing that gives pride. We form tribes and fall in line under a piece of cloth to provide us with a sense of pride to uphold.In a war, we say, everyone loses but yet, we are ever ready to justify the mother of all battles to end wars. We know where it led us.The promise of wealth and power is good enough reason for us to get up in the morning and plunge ourselves into the conveyer belt that would send us all to the hole of destruction. We repeatedly justify our resort to extinction as a means to settle scores by putting the blame on Nature. Even our Universe is rough in its actions. Scorching expulsions of magma, destructive clash of meteorites, earth-shattering movements of tectonic plates and extremes of temperatures proves that the world is no pleasure cruise.
Sam Mendes took an enormous task to cover with this vast war epic - he decided to show just 24 hours of a war-torn day in 1917, April, through the means of a seemingly uninterrupted endless camera shot so that we could witness the whole event as if through the eyes of a main hero, Lance Corporal William "Will" Schofield, here depicted masterfully by George MacKay. Alongside him, there's a whole array of wonderful British actors appearing here and there, such as Mark Strong as Captain Smith or excellent Benedict Cumberbatch as Colonel Mackenzie, or equally superb Colin Firth as General Erinmore.
This technique of a seamless single shot is nothing new, and here we see some obvious edits and cuts, which are not a tragic obstacle. Generally, the movie delivers the message extremely well, with a certain drawback being very obvious - the movie often drags and plods, thus losing much of its certain steam.
Several blatant mistakes and goofs apart, 1917 managed to impress me, but on one thing I surely agree - this was not the Movie of the year.
I am not going into huge details but.Very realistic, especially fighting and characters, especially being sick in background or panicking really shows how traumatic it wasTimes I thought it was rushed and boring and there was some plot holes which were off. All germans have stormtrooper aim, but again it's a movie. Generally good. But it isnt kn my favourite war movies. It's worth going to watch tho
Doesn't worth watching. Don't waste your time.All the scenes are predictable. The actions are simple and even funny.
How could you believe a soldier leave his gun and run away from Germans without getting shot.
Distances aren't real,it shouldn't has to have one shot,more shots would help it to have real science.
Those guys didnt even got through the 7 days army boot camp. Sorry to say but this movie is a poor politicaly righteous attempt to sell you some tickets. Go and see Paths of Glory... Oscar cmon whats wrong with the world today.
So why did this movie not won the Oscar for best movie? True story, great acting, action and this movie really takes you into the story. Great camera work and beautiful sets.Just watch it and you will be taken away in a great story/advanture.
ReviewsSorry, your review is too short.
Sorry, your review is too short.
Sorry, your review is too short.
Difinitely not the best war movie I've seen, but this is a good movie. The movie looked very good and the scenes and shots were breathtaking. Sound and music really helped to provide an emotional experience. However, there were too many moment where it fell flat. The story could have been more interesting at points and it just became bland. But overall it is worth a watch and I was not disappointed but 8.5 rating is definitely overrated as usual this movie is a 6 to 7 maximum.
Some part the story is in some unknown place with surprise women.For me its ok but need more deep down survival action...
As a synopsis is not required on such a splendid tense action film set in the murderous fields of the somme, story similar to Gallipoli where instead of Mel Gibson runner messenger segment in the end of the movie trying to relay orders of cancellation of advance push into a slaughter.
1917 entirety focuses on getting this letter order message to halt the advance of 1600 men to their deaths by next day, couriering by two lance corporals and one of them has a brother in one of the battalions!One of the main characters running across the field during battle towards the end has the worst CGI as you can see no shadows under his feet as he dashes
in front of charging men!
I like war movies. Last one I saw was Dunkirk. This didn't rank up to it. The dialog was lacking. The way it was filmed got me nauseous , motion sickness . The plot was little weak. It was ok movie. Not a wow moment
A sombre and humble WW-I film. If one has read even an overview of the battles of the WW-I, the horrors of trench warfare aren't unknown and this is where the movie begins. The sets of the trenches, the state of the hygiene, living conditions of the soldiers, the horrid views of the no-mans-land and the barbed wires etc. are depicted well enough to make the viewer uneasy. The landscapes of the French countryside, the devastation caused by aerial raids are captivating. The dogfight scene came as a pleasant surprise! The supporting actors leave an impression, even if their roles last barely a few minutes on the screen. MacKay has played his role immaculately, in fact I could relate what I read about the transformation the wars bring in men. With a runtime of barely 2 hours, the movie offers a lot.
Since my primary parameter of evaluation has always been the screenplay, I hate to say that the screenplay was unimpressive. I have no idea of the frontline battles but even if one wants to avoid detection of large groups, fast pace and secrecy, I can't believe that such a crucial task can be enlisted to just two soldiers. The incessant background score reminded me of the similar exasperation that I faced while watching 'Dunkirk'. The background score makes sense only if used sparingly.
Overall, the presentation, acting, cinematography and the overall execution of the movie is commendable but these strong elements can't salvage the screenplay.
This movie looked interesting. I have heard all the great ratings and reviews, the trailer made it look interesting, and I assumed a war movie would have plenty of action, so I wanted to see it. I hoped it wouldn't be as disappointing as Dunkirk. And... it was actually a little better than Dunkirk, but not better than Saving Private Ryan. But... it wasn't as good as people think it is. I can understand why it has such good ratings, but the reasons for that don't make the movie any better.The first thing to say about this movie is that the entire movie is one whole shot. The cinematography has no cuts or skips ahead of time. Now, that's actually really cool. I was wondering, "How in the world did they film this whole thing and get everything so right??" And the way they move the cinematography is also good. But the thing is... the fact that there are no cuts or skips ahead of time, it makes the film less intriguing.You see the film is about this soldier traveling to deliver a message to call off an attack and see his friend's brother. But while the entire movie shows him traveling without any cuts or time skips, there's not enough going on. Hardly any action or tension during the entire story. It made the movie slow-paced and bland. The way they kept the cinematography and the story going made it very slow-paced.Mainly there's just not enough happening during the soldier's travels to keep the audience, or in this case, me, going. At the end, you see him deliver the message, and the attack is called off. And then he meets the brother of his friend, who died in the film. So then I'm just like, "That's it?" We came all this way seeing the full time of his slow-paced travels where hardly anything was happening just to see him deliver a message and meet a friend? Was it really worth it to wait til the end to see if he made it?But again, the cinematography is very unique. They got every detail right in the span of a 1 hour shot. Twice. But I don't think that makes the movie itself any better. Overall, there just wasn't enough going on and the pacing was so slow. The continuous cinematography, no cuts, and no skips ahead of time weren't enough to keep me going.
My wife and I both enjoyed this movie acting by both lead characters were top notch along with the direction and cinematography.
We both agreed on a 7/10.Recommend!
It's said that "Dying is easy; comedy is hard." Well that can be said for War Movies as well. This film might be technical and visual perfection, but it's a one trick pony after 15 minutes. I had a sneaky suspicion from the trailer how it would play and it lived up to expectations.
As visually stunning as this film is, the story lacks depth, emotion, and at times is plain stupid, for the story I would give 3, cinematics 9, so a 5 from me. I wouldn't watch it again, a very forgettable film, the first 50min was ok, the rest..... not so good.
Well, the directing, cinematography, production design, and music definitely deserve their nominations! However, this wouldn't be my pick for best picture of the year. All in all, glad I saw it, but wouldn't see it again.
Its seems in this day and age, the key to making a "good' movie involves having great technical aspects, which allows everyone to overlook any shortcomings (such as the MCU).The fact that 1917 was filmed in a single scene is analogous to Boyhood being filmed over 12 years. Both technical "marvels", but it doesn't mean that there is actually any substance to either of them.That doesn't mean that 1917 is bad, it's just another typical movie that happens to have an interesting gimmick.
I wasn't sure what to expect with this film, but was surprised to see it was focused on two soldiers in particular, and they remained the main focus throughout.
I felt the the film captured some of the horrors of world war 1 in the trenches with dead bodies of soldiers, rotting horses and rats. I believe conditions to have been even worse than depicted in this film, but they handled it well giving an idea of the horrors that soldiers encountered.
Bits that I didn't like about this film were things like the single cow alive, with a pail of milk nearby, while everything else has been killed and fruit trees cut down. I can't believe that the German pilot that they rescued would have just pulled a knife and killed his rescuer. In the first war pilots were very honourable with a sense of fair play, so this underhand attack doesn't sit well with me.
The soldier that is left then becomes invincible, when he later ends up with no rifle, helmet or anything, but still manages to evade bullets and bombs. At one point in the dark when discovered by the Germans they shout Englander. How on earth would they know this one guy is English and not French or Belgian?
Then he stumbles on a battalion of soldiers in the woods just listening to a soldier singing, with no regard for any possible attacks from Germans as he just wanders in and sits down with them.
It was all too English flag waving and how they won the war, it needed more balance.
Well done on the scenes, but the superhero brits didn't work for me.
My Great Uncle, Rifleman William Phillips R5080, was a member of the same Battalion as Sam Mendes's grandfather, to whom the film is dedicated, the 1st Battalion, the King's Royal Rifle Corps. Unlike Sam's grandfather, William was killed in action and did not survive to tell his stories or have a family. This was 17 February 1917, about 2 months before the film is set, and he was buried in a shell hole where, so far as we know, he remains today. He was one of the 73000 who remain unidentified. However, to commemorate the centenary of William's death, I travelled to the Somme, to Miraumont where William was killed. Before doing so I extensively researched the King's Royal Rifle Corps. I read the Battalion War diary and countless books on the action in which my great uncle was killed. While I do not wish to challenge any of the stories on which this film is based, I do have a couple of observations. The action in which William was killed was described as the worst going for infantry in the whole Somme campaign. This may not have applied in April, but the few photographs that exist show a terrain far worse than the film describes. The mud was knee deep and completely littered with line after line of barbed wire and layered trenches. By comparison 1917, while muddy up to a point, gives the impression of a country walk. I do not understand why what is obviously a dry dock was used to play the part of a river, nor can I find white water rapids anywhere in Northern France, still less a large waterfall. I'm afraid that for me this detracts from the authenticity of the film. As a piece of theatre it is a good film, but as a tribute to the actual conditions that soldiers faced, it is an understatement.
This movie was amazing from start to finish. Cried a little at a few parts. I don't buy many movies on DVD or Blu-ray. This film will definitely be worth the money. I don't want to spoil it, but it's just amazing!
I feel really sorry... really sorry for the ones who haven't seen this movie yet.
This is a week after I watched it in the most crowded but at the same time quite IMAX showing I have ever been to. And after a week 1917 still sits in me and I still dream about it at night.
I'm not going into detail about the technical aspects of the movie. Because you know it's a masterpiece by what you heard already.
Just trust me when I say say you WILL love it. It's NOT just another action war flick but yet it's still more exiting and tense that any action or/and war movie I have ever seen.And please don't listen to the bad reviews, they have probably pirated the movie and watched it in bad quality with bad sound otherwise they think transformers is the best movies you can watch... sorry can't find another explanation.
It's so good. It really makes you feel something. I dont write reviews and im not good at them I just had to give it a 10 stars
No other movie has affected me so much. I never fully considered the debt we owe to these men.
Fantastic movie
Lots of director brilliance can be observed
Best film of the year.
An unbelievably good film the story, the way it's shot and the acting all superb it's deserving of all its awards and more.
There are two things about this film that I am typically not a fan of: movies set in the past and movies where the story line is a mission and not an arc. However, after being mesmerized for the full two hours of this film, I can truly say I couldn't care less. The cinematography, production design and direction were all pieces of art that will without a doubt rain in Oscars. Sam Mendes (director/writer) and Roger Deakin (cinematography) are geniuses that have produced something that has absolutely never been seen before.
I saw my first movie in 1948 - Bambi :)Over all the years since then I've seen great, good, bad and indifferent movies and then there comes along the occasional magnificent achievement in filmmaking.
I rate 1917 in the latter category.It grabbed me right from the start and it never let go. I walked and ran every step of the way with the characters. I was so involved I never even noticed any the big names that appeared in the end credits. I was very glad I never watch trailers or clips or read reviews in advance of seeing a movie. They always give something away.Others have rightly praised the one-shot style, editing, the widescreen cinematography, set design, the score etc. They are absolutely stunning.Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay are very convincing in portraying two ordinary soldiers plunged by circumstances into a situation they could never have envisaged. It's not really a "war movie" in the true sense. It's a story of courage and determination in the face of massive odds.I am beyond understanding how anyone could rate 1917 as boring. It will long live in the memory.
The camera work is definitely good. Tension build up in most scenes also pretty good.
At certain points in the movie you feel the horrors of trench war.The story line begins promising but throughout the journey it misses a lot and for me it wasn't important any more.
That left me with hope for good action scenes but unfortunately that also did not worked out the way I hoped for.
I think the makers aimed for a to big audience and included the younger viewers who cant handel the gore.
If you really want to make a realistic movie about war and battle with lots of detail you should go all the way in my opinion (for example "full metal jacket").
But this movie is not all the way, this is a good halfway. Way to prude as they say in Britain.It could be a really intense good war movie do.
Too bad
Sometimes a film wins loads of awards, you go to see it, and realise it's not worthy of the hype.And then there's 1917. A film that lives up to the promise and then some.This is an excellent film, beautifully shot and performed.
The story of 1917 was simple, about two WWI British soldiers with a mission to carry a message to another front to stop an attack that wind up to a trap costing over 1,000 lives. Bears in mind, this took place in 1917. We are used to the instant communication. They did not have that luxury. The soldiers had to go through dangerous and hostile territory to get the message delivered. The visual, the setting, and the way it was shot was so incredibly realistic that I was totally immersed into the situation like I was with these two soldiers. Like the soldiers, we don't know what is ahead.The movie was very intense, and the two hours went by quickly. The two actors were wonderful in their portrayal. Through their conversation, I got to know the kind of people they are. Another strong point was that musical score, which intensified the suspense. My really only major criticism was that there were few scenes seemed to over reached a bit for their plausibility, but it was relatively not as a big deal as compared to rest of the movie. Because of the great cinematography and setting, if you plan to see it, don't wait for it coming to video. See it on the big screen. Seeing in a small screen will missed out the incredible detail this movie offered. Powerful experience that most of us fortunate enough not to have to experience in real life.
Movie was keeping me on its grip from
the very start. Most intense and adrenalin pumping movie I have seen in a while. Any how, there was two (note, ONLY two) scenes that felt unnecessary character building attempts.
This play has accomplished its greatest nightmare with its locations. Everything was perfectly captured in Sam Mendes vision. Work was recognized by the film. Although this film is a bit stuck but it feels refreshing and quite inspiring. To the people who remembered the war as a joke this a fine example reminding the weather around us. Everything was brilliance. My two hours of experience in the theatre made me fall for its craft. It's story telling. Behavior, every thing is great.
I was skeptical that this film would not live up to the reviews. My 12 year old granddaughter wanted to see this because she said they don't teach WWI much in school. My 15 year old grandson was reluctant to give up 2 hours of his Sunday although he is into all things military. Both were enthralled by this magnificent effort to give us a glimpse of the horrors of war. Mendes captures all the elements perfectly so you feel that you are there with the main characters. You see the destruction, the death, the pain and suffering of everyone and everything. The film is about something bigger than one man and about what we have deep inside that keeps us striving to take one more step forward. I highly recommend this movie.
I had high expectations for this movie. Sadly, it turned out to be overly-hyped. While it was thrilling and the visual images were amazing, I feel like today's cinema is fully focused on that and forgot about the essence. The movie was good, but not great. Did not tickle my intelligence, or my deep emotions. And that's exactly what a movie should do! After I watched Hotel Rwanda, for example, I thought about it for years, it inspired something in me - to make a difference! It reached my depths and shaken my inner self. This is just an example. Many war movies did that, and I hope these new writers and directors will remember that us, the audience will forget what we saw, but never what we felt.
1917 really blew me away, and i came into it with high expectations due to the numerous nominations and awards. The fact that the whole movie is manipulated in a way to seem as a seamless continuous shot really helps with the delivery. The connection between lance corporal Blake and Schofield seems so natural, and we are truly following these 2 for a good chunk of the beginning until we lose Blake to a downed German solider. The raw emotions of this film in my opinion outclass a lot of other war movies, as this is built on a true relationship that is tested and broken. There was also an eerie feeling to this film, and i was quite tense throughout it not really knowing what to expect next. The pacing is quite slow overall and this is not a movie you go and see if you expect a lot of action. It to me was more of an adrenaline rush and a patience game, as we are following only 2 soldiers that are trying to get past a multitude of defenses. Lone Survivor is a movie i felt like i could relate this to, but again 1917 is a lot slower and has more 1 on 1 battles that show the real emotions of war.
This movie is truly a treat and will be a top of my favorites for 2020, as i was late to the party on seeing this in theaters.
A real masterpiece.
Understandably dealings will get most of the credit here, however the script is also immaculately put together and subtly developed.
The storyline about delivering an important message to avoid a massacre is deceptively simple. Blake and Scholfield, two corporals, must go through dangerous territory to reach the battalion where Blake's brother is serving, to avoid 1600 soldiers falling into a German trap.The two embark into a nightmarish mission, during which they both will prove to be outstanding human beings.The tension is palpable throughout their journey, and since they're both nice people, you really feel for them and hope they're going to make it. Nowadays it is increasingly rare to see sympathetic main characters on screen. For that reason only, this movie is a step ahead of all the pretentious ones that patronise their audience.Besides, even if the devastating effects of war are visible and plenty of corpses are scattered on the battlefield, the camera never lingers for cheap shots of horrifying, voyeuristic thrills. Again, a major difference with lots of other war and crime movies.Really hoping that for once and after years of delivering Oscars to politically correct mush, this one will win the well deserved prize.
Struggle, struggle and struggle. That's what comes to our minds when we hear of war. And 1917 horrifically just showcases that in the most appropriate manner. With a compact cast, beautiful cinematography and cracking background score, 1917 remains as one of the finest contenders for Academy Awards 2020!
Not since All Quiet on the Western Front has there been a greater World War I movie than 1917. The film's famous one shot is absolutely brilliant, seemingly unedited and delivering the best angles at any given time. The production design is spectacular, the score is suitably intense, the acting is so strong and underappreciated, the direction is amazing, and some of the imagery here, especially the fire scene, felt truly artistic. But the movie is so much more than just this unprecedented technical achievement. It is a film about brotherhood and friendship, it's downright heartbreaking in some scenes and its most impressive achievement is how it was conceptualized as an immersive adventure film and an exciting video game. The ending is emotional, the night sequence is incredibly suspenseful and the abandoned barracks scene is unforgettable in its entirety. Consequently, Sam Mendes here directed his magnum opus and one grand war picture for the ages.
Need to see it in order to know how the real story was.
The way this movie is shot brings you into the experience. You feel as though your trudging through the mud with Blake and Scofield. When they're in a gunfight, your there too. The tragedies that happen to them also happen to you. I left the theater in a state of bewilderment and awe as viewing a movie shot this way left me feeling as no other has in a long long time.
Wow! A proper cinema movie - I was gripped from the start. Some of the scenes were so intense I found myself clenching fists! It really is a spectacular movie and I would recommend anyone to go to the cinema to watch this on the big screen.
This film is just incredible. Really makes you feel in touch with every character and the lack of cuts and transitions just makes it flow beautifully. Breathtaking experience.
A beautiful study of human courage, determination and compassion. Really enjoyed how the protagonist emerges from an initial state of reluctance and resentment.
1917 is visually stunning with so many beautiful shots throughout the movie and the entire one shot really gets you immersed into the movie the story was amazing and very intense would recommend and watch again
1917 is the BEST war movie ever! Great job by the cast as well as great directing by Sam Mendes. I can see why this movie is nominated for 10 Oscars. I hope it sweeps the Oscars as it very well deserves to. GO SEE THIS MOVIE!
A really awsome detail and story that bring a lot to the movie
Amazing stuff, not only the story but the acting and the cinematography were beautiful, it gave you a feeling of the gallows humour that must have been prevalent at the time and the love between the two main characters was well crafted and the story keeps you gripped all the way through
An amazing film. I really felt like I was there, in the war. The cast selection was amazing and the special effects were great. Overall, a great movie, 10/10!
First of all I want to give a lot of credits to one specific scene, the minutes before the populair running "shot" of Schofield; After Schofield finds the Devons, he and the Company start moving though the tenches to the front. This is where they enter the battlefield. Different Companies are waiting for their call to go, totally ready for their take off. Two soldiers hanging on the rope ladder against the trench, while all the others are waiting for the whistle. They were probably waiting for their last run ever, without even knowing that. Therefore, this scene gave me goosebumps for more than 2 minutes. Again, lots and lots of credits.Despite I don't have many complaints about the movie, I think there is a lot to say about the "ons-shot" production.Concerning the benefits; the technique applied on the movie is brilliant. Especially after watching "1917 Behind-the-scenes Extended Featurette on One Long Shot". This gives a good insight about the difficulties that the producers had to oversee.
Secondly, the one-shot element creates a total different content: two soldiers, one day, one mission. By doing it this way, you get to know Schofield and Blake completely different. This made the movie more simplistic and therefore maybe more realistic.This simplicity, however, brings me to the contras. A logic consequence of using just one shot, is that you are bound to specific persons and areas. This directly leads to less depth in the story. And NO: I don't want more shootings, more battles or whatever. I just want to get to know the main characters a bit more. For example, Schofield met the French woman with the infant. One-shot movie making forces you to move on after just one tissue to stop the bleeding of your head. I think, however, including this kind of "emotional paternity" could be a perfect addition to this movie if it was more extended.To conclude, 1917 creates a total different perspective of war. Instead of telling a broad story, this intriguing movie present just a day of to young soldiers forced to execute a specific mission. Therefore, the beauty is in its simplicity. But by doing so, depth of a story is hard to include. Fortunate I did not have to choose between them, but if I had to, I would say: you tell me!
To talk about "1917" is necessary to distinguish between the technical department and the plot itself. Technically "1917" is awesome, from the direction and the cinematography to the score, everything is stunning. Sam Mendes was fantastic and the fictitious long-take was incredible and it provided all the tension of the movie: not knowing what is to come and following the protagonists in their journey makes you live the experience with them and share the same emotions. And in all of that there were some memorable scenes as far as the aesthetics that are a statement of the excellent work from the technical department. Also the cast gave great performances even if they had very few to work with. Indeed the plot was uninspired and the least original it can be, with a lot of situations seen a million times in other war movies and there wasn't nothing fresh. The tension as I said was provided by the long-take and the score, while the plot couldn't build some of it too. In theory there were high stakes but I couldn't perceived that and this is the major problem of the movie. At one point I came to the realisation that the whole plot is written only to serve the beautiful long-take and nothing more. And I also realised that this movie is a great display of style and technique that has no substance as far as everything else. And while I was coming out of the cinema I listened to other people talking as it's usual after watching a movie and everyone was praising the direction and how visually beautiful the movie was, but I didn't hear a single person talking about what happened there or the shock they had in that scene, or that unexpected twist or something like these. All they talked about was the technique. And the fact that the first impressions weren't about the emotions the movie conveyed but about how the movie was made, that is what I think is the biggest flaw of the movie.
In conclusion "1917" has an uninspired plot and it doesn't manage to provoke strong emotions, but it is very very stunning. It's no doubt worth watching because Sam Mendes and his crew did a fantastic job in order to make this movie looking so great. If only the story wasn't a pretext to shot the movie the way it was, "1917" would have probably reached the status of "one of the greatest movie ever".
It was good for sensational cinematography, but story was not so much catchy and multiple times, it felt like a set is put there for particular scenes which sparked unreal feeling.
This movie had everything you would want in a World War Film it is emotional,action packed and telling you about that you have to deliver a message that can save 1600 men where they are walking into a trap by the Germans.
Real movie magic. Amazing - timing, scenery, character movement and everything. It was like watching an actual story that happened in 1917.
1917 is the best war movie I've seen in a while. The best thing about this movie is obviously the cinematography, the one shot take of the movie definitely adds to the mood of the movie. The lighting is amazing and this film is so damn gorgeous, such a feast to the eyes. The acting was brilliant. The production design and costume design was also on point.The problem I have with it though are the characters. The characters didn't develop as much through the movie. That made the movie less interesting for me.Overall, 1917 is a great movie with great cinematography, production design and acting. The technical aspects of the movie is definitely 100/10. The characters though feels abit flat. I'm gonna give 1917 a 9/10.
One of the Best Oscar(2019) nominated movie.Roger Deakins and Sam Mendes have some amazing connection, they know how to show something really simple in very cool style. You can't turn your eyes away from the screen, the style as recorded by this movie is just incredible.Acting Ensemble Dean-Charles Chapman, George MacKay super. I just open new generation good Britain actors.You definitely have to go and watch this masterpiece in a movie theater.
I had great expectations for this movie because of the strong casting of Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch , Andrew Scott and Mark Strong. I was sad to find out their scenes were very specific and not much. Dean- Charles Chapman's role as lance corporal Blake had a big Emotional impact on me? His scene moved me very much. George Mackay was kind of the leading actor but I wasn't much impressed. I'm not a big fan of one take movies... but that's how it was done, there were a couple of scenes that I thought were strong but overall, the movie was very quiet with minimal dialogue which I expected more of. But you can see the artistry in the direction and production for sure. To Win Best Picture, it might since it won a Golden globe. But for my taste, Angelina Jolie's Unbroken was a lot more better than this as a war genre movie
1917 is about two soldiers who need to get a message to a group of soldiers not to attack this area of they will all die.1917 is a Great War biopic that I would recommend for anybody. If you want to see it but you are worried it will be too violent, that isn't a problem. The Irishman is probably more violent than this picture. Every moment of this film from beginning to end made you feel like anything could happen at anytime. That was one of the things I loved about it. The score adding to that making it feel really intense or happy at anytime of the film. The imagery was a work of art. It was some of the best I have ever seen! It all looked fantastic and you couldn't take your eyes off of some of the scenery. The whole story was really fascinating to watch. I was really never thinking about other things in its runtime. Part of that was how intense the picture was as I said earlier. The war scenes were really well put together. There wasn't too much but when they happened, you felt like you were there in the action. The cinematography is something you just can't talk about this film while reviewing it. It was outstanding. Besides for one cut it all looked like it was one shot.Overall, 1917 is a great war film I would recommend to anyone.
Amazing war film. It success not only through great directing, acting, and cinematography, but also because it felt different. This is not just another war film.
First couple of minutes in I didn't know what to expect from this movie but then I realized that it's going to be war that I haven't seen before. The whole movie shot in one take is not something I haven't seen before but a war movie - this is something I think everyone ought to see. 1917 is perfect from a director of photography, set designer and stunt coordinator point of view as well as a great challenge for all of the actors involved who had done their jobs splendidly. George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman are relatively new to the audience but after the great success of 1917 (which in my humble opinion is inevitable, multiple Oscars worthy and well deserved) the world will hear about them. My only weak point about this grand spectacle of a movie is if you take this one magical component that holds it all the whole movie would fall flat in comparison to other, much greater movies of its genre and would be claimed as one-dimensional and multidimensional at the same time. But it sure does make one fall in love with cinema once again.
Wow. This movie was so damn good. I have no words. The cinematography, acting, all were great. And the action scenes are all in 1 take. That is a big achievement right there. The actors were great in this movie everyone felt like a real soilder in 1917. Which can I say I am glad they did a take in World War 1. So many movies always do the same damn World War 2 story all the time. So I am glad they did World War 1. The film was everything what I wanted it to be. I went in with no hopes but when I started this movie it was from a 0 to the end with a 100. That's a great thing to do in cinema. It was also unpredictable and this movie did do just that. Brilliant movie of 2019. 10/10
I am probably not qualified enough to write a review about this classic. Especially considering almost how all the making videos surfacing on the internet have already described the brilliance of the movie.Most of the war movies happen to be critic favourites and also go on to win awards. 1917 has been topping many charts along the same line. But what makes 1917 stand out is not just it's script and making but it's attention to detail which is a treat if you are a movie observer. As most of you already know the movie is shot in the same sequence as the script. The movie's journey through its lead characters makes the audience also experience the same with the one shot technique. Great acting from the young actors, special appearances, epic background music and the special camerawork add to this wonderful cinematic experience. Despite being a war drama, the movie can cater to almost all age groups.1917 is a cinematic experience like never before and puts 3D movies to shame with its unique filmmaking.
Not on par with the best. Shot in an interesting style and overall enjoyable. I would have enjoyed a larger scale view.. ps... the most exciting moments you've already seen in the trailer.
This is the perfect movie! Well done Sam Mendes, crew and cast ...!!!
The story is nothing. Everything was made to make the movie look like it was one shot. So because of this everything else was sacreficed. Sadly..But the point is that, why on Earth do you think the DP has anything to do with this?????? The cinematography was nothing. A guy was following the actors and that's all. There was one shot that looked amazing. The rest was nothing.What you saw, how they recorded the whole thing was made by the director. It's not cinematography. You're terribly mistaken.The cinematography is (in very basics), the angles, the way the camera moves (I said basics!). None of it was special at any point of the movie!Making it look like it was one shot was done by the director and not the DP.The director deserves an Oscar for making this movie. No doubt about that.
BUT the movies and it's creators deserve no awards.Every other nominated movie ever in this theme was better in every aspect!
Almost every nominated movie is better than this one.Just because you can't see, it doesn't make it better.
Stanley Kubrick once said , "If it can be written or thought , it can be filmed." Sam Mendes's 1917 just reminds us how true that quote is . A retired military personal who fought World War I tells his grandson a story about the War. Years later the little boy is now a established movie director , only this time he decides to flim his grandfather's story & makes '1917 '.The First world war drama which has already won best picture honours at the Golden Globes , uses the "one-shot" format like Hitchcock's 'Rope' or Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu's 'Birdman' . 1917 uses several takes and set-ups, seamlessly conjoined to give the appearance of a continuous cinematic POV, albeit with periodic ellipses. The result is a populist, immersive drama that leads the viewer through the trenches and battlefields of northern France, as two young British soldiers attempt to make their way through enemy lines on 6 April 1917.The storyline of the movie is very simple , there is no hidden plot or twist in it , but where the flim makes a difference is on technical ground . The entire movie made to look like it's shot at one single take, this is only possible because of extraordinary talented 14 times Academy award nominee cinematographer Roger Deakins. This man is a living genius. The movie is shot beautifully and edited even more brilliantly by Lee Smith . It is always mesmerizing to a watch war movie like it is happening right in front of you. The pacing is phenomenal. The background score by Thomas Newman brilliantly holds up the audience .The climax scene where Schofield runs to the Commander through the battlefield reminds me of Nolan's Dunkrik , where Fionn Whitehead lies on the sand & the fighter planes drop off the bombs . Geroge MacKay has brilliantly potrayed his role as Corporal Schofiled . Dean Charles Chapman and Richard Madden (who only comes in the climax) also adapted the charecter well .The amount of work that went into this film alone deserves your attendance . The story never stalls, and has a fair balance between war and humanity, and has some of the most incredible camera work I've seen in a while.The entire cast deserves a round of applause for pulling this off. Modern flimmaking at it's best ! It will be a shame if this doesn't win the academy award for Best Cinematography though Parasite or Joker should win the award for Best Picture this year .This movie is epic visual treat . If 'My Way' shares the same spot with 'Saving Private Ryan' , this one will be sharing the spot with Nolan's 'Dunkirk'.Ratings - 8.6
People call this film "The Birdman of WWI" and to be fair that is a justified assessment. This entire film is filmed like it is one camera shot and it is AWESOME!
Positives
+ Amazing cinematography
+ Great acting
+ Gripping moments and action
+ The amazing props and set design are realistically done
+ The music elevates the scene very well and great sound design
+ A simple but investing storyNegatives
There is a fair amount of obvious cuts which isn't major but can take you away from the one shot scenarioThere is a scene halfway through the movie where they use a cut. While necessary it does technically not make the film a one shot looking film.Honestly my negatives are just nitpicks. This movie is amazing and it is definitely worth watching right now
Scenes of the ruined town in the night is impressive.
Hot on the heels of (the better) Dunkirk comes 1917.There are two distinct chapters to this film: the first half all mud and macabre; the second despair and hallucinatory. In the first half, we have the brown landscapes of trenches and into No Man's Land. The second an orange bombed-out French town.While the two-take structure works well for ramping up the claustrophobia, it comes close to veering into Indiana Jones territory. What saves things, is that you instantly relate to our two heroes, which brings the pay-off at the finale.
1917 follows the actions of a few days in April 1917. The Germans have retreated, but airial recon has identified that they are not in flight, but rather this is an organised retreat to an already prepared line.However the Devon's don't know and they are due to attack. Blake (Chapman) and Schofield (MacKay) are selected to run through the area vacated by the Germans and give the warning. This begins the film, and it follows the two Lance Corporals as they make their way through no-mans land; the German trenches and the terrors that wait beyond.This is a great film; paying homage to those who fought in Europe whilst not glorifying the Great War. Recommended.
1917 tells a very simple story, but manages to have viewers on the edge of their seats just by the way, the story is told.During the movie I found myself asking, how they did some of the scenes with almost no visible cuts - in a war movie! The camera work is setting new bench marks and is definitely Oscar-worthy. This way of filmmaking draws the viewer into the action on the screen, as if he was part of it. The result is a atmosphere of danger and suspense, which is tangible for the viewer. Rarely I did experience a cinema audience that quiet.The acting is also very good, but some of the characters might have been a bit more interesting with more background and depth given to them.The set design is made with a lot of effort and adds even more to the general atmosphere of the movie. The soundtrack underlines the scenes very well.This is the type of movie, which should absolutely be watched in cinema!
This film reeks of compassion to the brave. It is reminescent of Lord of the Rings, in the sense that it's an adventure about two 'hobbits'. Tolkien, after all, served in WW1 too. The main characters embark on a similar quest as Frodo and Sam. It feels as if you join them on their journey. Like you're going hiking with a few friends, except every wrong move might kill you. The tension build-up from start to finish is impeccable. All great movies are about a journey. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is a journey, as is Apocalypse Now. This movie was missing the 'Marlon Brando' depth though, therefore it is not a 10. Never before has the first World War however been portrayed in such an intimate and beautifully shot fashion.
Feels like playing a fps game. Many short special appearances
One of the best war movies ever on par with saving private ryan the direction and cinematography take the film to whole new level music is brilliant and one shot scenes are taken perfectly. This film is technically very accurate and the acting from lead actors is spot on kudos to sam mendes and the entire team a well deserve oscar for this masterpiece...
Masterpiece. No better words to describe this movie.
Hopefully the world will never have to face the horrors of another world war. And maybe we should, to find our humanity again. This is more of a letter to a moment in time we must never forget than an exact account of what happened. The cinematography, acting and editing is beyond beautiful.
Spectacular! It was riveting, tense, and the most singularly visceral war movie I may have ever seen. It was a cinematographic tour de force. What could have been a gimmick of single-take shot, instead provided incredible verisimilitude and for the first time I could begin to imagine what trench warfare might have been like in WWI. The score by Thomas Newman was propulsive and as much or greater part of the film all around, but FWIW, my pulse was still racing thirty minutes later in the lift on the way up to our apartment. I highly recommend seeing this in the theatre, even if war movies aren't your thing.
What superlatives can be used on a movie like this? One that touches the senses in ways that you never saw coming, that grabs a hold of you and doesn't let go, haunting your thoughts at random moments for years after. This is "1917". A brilliantly told story, cinematography that makes you realize what a movie should be, a heart stopping score, phenomenal acting, special effects that are top notch, and, most of all, a story that punches you right in the gut, and makes you so grateful for all of the soldiers who have ever fought for us, and given all so many times. It is a movie that I am going to watch on Veteran's Day, and more importantly, think of when I see a vet selling poppies, or needing help with something. Yes, this movie touches you that much. It should, hands down, get best picture, and several other Oscars too!
Sorry to repeat something said by other reviewers: I'm not a great fan of war movies, though some I do like.1917 was a breathtaking film. A lot can be said about the 'single shot' concept, but I would more say that the cinematography was a masterclass, the performances were remarkable by the entire cast and there was something so real and realistic about it all.It deserves the best picture oscar as much as it deserves a place in movie history. Might not be one to watch twice, but the grit and realism combined seamlessly with top grade production qualities to deliver a film that turns a fairly straightforward and believable plot into a magnetic piece of cinematic history.
Great story told in the way real movies art to be filmed. Great sound track, and acting.
I wanted to see this movie for three reasons:
First, it is a Sam Mendez movie who never disappointsSecond, I read 500 page book about the English experience at the Battle of the Somme ("Into the Breach" if you're interested). It was historical researched and contained multiple excerpts from journals of people that where there. One of the excepts went like this (I paraphrase):" I sent my brother and another to call back an attack that would fail. They reached the companies, but where was my brother when they cane back? I was told he was in No-Mans-Land. What?!. The reply was " No old man he didn't make it".The writer wrote that in the end he sent his brother to save others brothers, and lost his own.Third: the soundtrack was composed by Thomas Neman, who is without a doubt the most inspired artist of his generation.There is a seen in this movie that is so emotional that it will put you on the floor if you're not sitting. The music at first seems wrong, because it is so majestic, but then you remember the mission, and the music is perfect.Only two other movies have made me feel so emotional, Shindler's List, and Gangs of New York. At first I was OK then on the way out of the theater I needed to lean on the wall and sob.
Such an amazing movie, the fact that it's all in one shot makes it so powerfull and really makes you feel connected to the characters. There is a constant tension which keeps you concentrated on the movie for the whole 2 hours. It has beautiful emotional shots. A real must see!
I was blown away! How they filmed this movie is freaking STUNNING! This is litterly like a one shot film. It's just like one or two moments in the movie that you are seeing get clipped. AN AMAZING ART OF WORK SAM MENDES!
Yep. Everyone know what master shot is. But, what do you say about master-shot-production? Ok. I'ts not really master shot but still make great impression. 1917 deserved for my TOP 5 WAR FILMS.
Great war movie, bit a war movie none the less.If there are war movies you like, you'll probably like this. I'd Saving Private Ryan wasnt your cup of tea, this wont be.
This film surprised me in such a good way, I'm glad that I saw it. Please give it a chance.
World class craftmanship no doubt. And the intense camera work following the lead characters through the trenches and battlefields is mindblowing even if you can spot some of the places where the invisible cuts are made. But the story is not that great. An interesting thought is to imagine this film being edited in a more traditional way. In that case this would be a pretty big nothing I bet. But the camera work is fantastic which makes the picture worth seeing. Fine acting and great score aswell. Would surprise me big time if it doesn't win the Oscar for best cinematography and production design.
An exceptional movie for its genre, with excellent storytelling, cinematography and camera work. The amazing scenery, brilliant performances from such young actors and the suited soundtrack tie together a truly beautiful film.
Loved the production and the look but the story to me takes a dive when the brother gets killed. Why would you pull your enemy out of a burning plane and then give him water ? Why wouldn't you just shoot him?
The cinematography makes you feel like you are in the trenches with the actors. It is a moment to moment edge of your seat movie with suspense and action. This is 100% worth the theater experience.
Sam Mendes takes a simple story and turns it into a technically stunning cinematic masterpiece. Likable leads, gripping action, and unrivaled cinematography come together for a movie-going experience unlike any other, and one of the best war films of our generation.
The first thing that made interested in 1917 was the one-shot cinematography. It got me interested in seeing how exactly can such a film be made. As I watched it yesterday in cinemas, I thought it was a riveting experience. 1917 is an outstanding war/action drama film that pulls you into its tension-filled, action-packed and emotionally captivating atmosphere. It succeeds more on the technical front, to be honest, but it also succeeds in terms of story, performances and overall execution.1917 is more of an action-adventure film set during the World War I. There's plenty of action, and it's accompanied by some really quiet moments that elevate the tension when the action suddenly explodes. Physical stunts, gunfights, explosions and chases: it has got it all, and in a perfectly balanced manner. It also doesn't get loud due to minimal usage of background music: another reason why the film starts feeling more intimate with the viewer. The score, wherever present, is indeed electrifying, especially during the final action scene.George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman are what completes this film. Unlike many war movies where entire armies are the focus of the tale, this one has only got two young men, and that works for it big time. Kudos to Sam Mendes for delivering a spellbinding race-against-time action drama that succeeds in conveying the horrors of war and often, a strong tale of a realistic friendship.1917 needs to be experienced in the highest quality available, and the best way to do so is by watching it at cinemas. It's a film that definitely deserves to win big at the Oscars: something that seems fairly possible given how great this film is. And just one thought: looking at the poster which has 19 and 17 written in separate lines, does it tell something about the two protagonists? Like one is aged 19 and the other is 17? Well, who knows better than the makers themselves?
It is a short film but it has a great impact , plus it tells us about the horrors of war . Loved it !
What do you call appearing in Game of Thrones and a hit such as, Captain Fantastic?
The actors and story were awesome, but the actual filming at times made me feel as though i was in a VR or 3D movie, neither of which that i can visually tolerate without feeling ill . So so so so unfortunate. The scenery, scene set up, etc were outstanding. I lost 2 stars because it made it hard to enjoy my expensive seats and experience at the cinema.
I was more than intrigued to learn that Sam Mendes was making a historical title, 1917, about WWI. After all, regardless of his wonderful touch on interpersonal war such as Road to Revolution and many others, Mendes isn't notorious for a grasp over an epic of any real, bloody war. When I set my feet into the cinema, my doubts are simultaneously holding me back. I don't want the figure of the director, talented and dedicated, to be ruined by a movie that doesn't match his talents.
Fortunately, Mendes is clever enough to make both his old audience and new viewers ecstatic. The movie is about a soldier who is responsible for delivering a message that can stop a massacre of 1600 men. He has to traverse the fronts, dodge the bullets, and survive himself at the most dangerous area man can ever imagine. The appliance of single long shot and on-foot cameraman, a signature of Mendes-made, carefully tracks the character alongside the destined adventure. In a manner, Mendes is generous enough to allow the audience, with breath held, to follow every step the soldier takes.
No doubts, Mendes names the title with four digits, 1917. It not only denotes the year in which the plot takes place but also marks the most devastating and hopeless moment of WWI. For three years straight, European powers have been struggling with an internal conflict, which may eventually jeopardize the whole of human civilization. As a result, millions of innocent young men are drafted and sacrificed; women ignored and exploited, dedicating to a holy purpose that gradually makes less sense.
Even though it merely costs less than 24 hours for the plot to develop fully, 1917 is well articulated. Almost none of the length is wasted, killing the motive of the audience to pee in the middle. Mendes also deploys his talent to narrate a seemingly boring story; in the movie, important details are so nicely concealed that their existence won't bother the progression of the main thread. For example, it all together takes the audience three wild guesses to figure out the function of a tiny metal box carried by the soldier, until he takes it from his inside pocket at the very end.
Mendes still owns the movie, despite the uncommon story it employs. As most of Mendes's stories, the plot itself can't even substantially constitute an event in history books; instead, reflect a trivial day of an ordinary soldier. However, all the trivial elements demonstrate the absurdity of war: the perpetual peace lies in the graveyard of all the sacrificed.
Actually, I have to brave myself to the cinema for the sake of witnessing the turnout of Mendes endeavor. When I hit the road, the panic for Coronavirus is spreading across the globe, causing a lockdown of cinema in many places in Asia. I, indeed, beg for the stroke of luck, which I may gain more easily than my Chinese counterpart, considering the rather limited size of the crowd in Europe. Awkwardly, the reality goes against my mind. The cinema is almost full of audience, regardless of the four recent virus cases confirmed in Bayern.
In the epidemics, as same as various wars, we can find a state of mind juxtaposing determination and panics that gradually normalizes itself. By targeting the security of life, the epidemic is seriously causing all sorts of unconventional warfare that may eventually echo Hobbes's theme, "everyone against everyone," while people, on the other hand, are accustomed to internalizing fear to understand the unnormal. Emergent measures can be assumed to make the country into a warzone: cities under siege, road cut down, people locked up at home, while any attempt to counter back these efforts can be deemed as inappropriate, unacceptable, or even traitorous.
I have no intention of questioning the state of emergency as the justification for all precaution efforts; after all, the sentiments that people have under the threat of global epidemics are also haunting me (sometimes more than I can suffer). Notwithstanding, it needs to be admitted that all of us, under threat, is troubled by a psychological condition that makes rumors, suspicions and baseless allegations convenient.
After all, in the midst of an atrocious, brutal war, what we are expecting is something different, something other than the enmity in human nature, which may declare the farewell to wars, once and for all.
The cinematography and acting is amazing.
the long shots tells the stories better than the dialogues!!
It also shows the emotional part of the stories so well
Definitely recommended to watch on the big screen. An amazing experience that leaves you speechless and glad you're not born into these horrendous times. I hope this movie scores big!
Wonderful cinematography, beautiful pictures, great directing throughout the multiple minute-long shots.
Must be seen in cinema!
This movie gets a 10 just because they pulled it off. A single shot (real or apparent doesn't matter) really goes a long way into pulling the viewer into the movie, and this movie does exactly that. The story is a bit light, for sure, and it takes liberties with realism, for sure, but they are more than made up for by the breathtaking cinematography and stunning sound & music.Quick note: In the country I'm from, every theater screening has an intermission, which does real harm to the audience's enjoyment of this movie (it especially harmed mine). AVOID INTERMISSIONS IF POSSIBLE.
1917 takes a familiar storytelling approach to the calamity of the western front. Send a couple of fictional characters into a real world event and follow them around. We are introduced to two honest British tommies and literally follow them, without a break, through the crucial details of the conflict. There is no mistaking the intention of the film as memoriam to the men who fought in the war. Mendes dedicates the film to a family member who was there and wants us to remember what happened. The film does not raise the question of how or why. It seeks only to examine the what of it, for this is the only bandwidth available to any Private or Lance Corporal in war.The plot is basic. Two Lance Corporals are sent into hostile territory to call off a doomed attack. The film is structured into 6 set pieces (excluding exposition and coda). Each is their own short story that could be played in any order.Following our two NCOs through the desolation of no man's land, the horrors are impressionistic. We barely notice dead bodies camouflaged in muck. A few misty tree trunks imply the ground was partly forested before being pounded to mud. Further in, we see churned up humanity left to the vermin. In the opposition trenches the German resources are noticeably superior to the Brits. The Brits have sandbags and corrugated iron lining their trenches whilst the Germans have concrete walls. The Brit dugouts are small and dark, whilst the Germans are billeted in underground barracks. And this is the position the Germans have abandoned for far superior defences! The Germans are better trained too. A key facet of the film is the contrast between naive British soldiering and the ruthlessness of the German men. Time and again Schofield is caught out by more decisive counterparts. The key moment in the film occurs whilst demonstrating mercy to an injured German pilot. They do what any decent civilian would have done, but these are not civilians and it does not end well.Must Schofield sacrifice his sense of humanity and decency to be a better soldier? The film's answer is resoundingly no. Following a near fatal exchange of rifle fire with a sniper, Schofield does not fire a single other shot, despite opportunities (and dire need) to do so. It may be the case that he has simply run out of ammo but this is not explicitly shown, so it is left to your own judgement what motivates his reticence. His only other kill is by strangulation, but this is clear cut survival.In a hellish sequence, surrounded by fire and smoke, we meet the only civilian and only woman in the story. A sort of good witch offering safe harbour from a sea of horror. She patches up the wounded man and tries to keep him safe from the outside world. He leaves. A safe harbour is no place for a solider anymore than the burning town is any place for a civilian.The most moving sequence has an eerie feel reminiscent of Tarkovsky or 'Come and See'. After a horrifying scramble over bodies of dead civilians, we hear ethereal singing coming from the woods. Through the trees we see hundreds of faceless men listening to a human voice singing a folk hymn. Here is the lost generation. The millions that left and didn't come home. Their very absence from Britain immeasurably changed its future in unknown ways. Deakins' camera wheels around slowly to reveal some of the faces. Here are teenage boys transfixed by the last moment of human produced beauty they will ever witness. As soon as the singing stops, they wake from the dream and return to human produced terror. We go with them, desperate to call a halt.In the end the officer in command sees no hope for these men. If they are not sacrificed today, they will be next week. It doesn't really make any difference, we will simply follow orders. The irony is that deferentially following orders is what put everyone in these trenches in the first place. New orders might save them today but aren't going to save them in the long run.One technical quibble. By necessity the artillery explosions in the final charge are CGI'd into the scene but they cross the eyeline where Schofield is running and this takes us out of the picture. We lose the very 'you are there' essence of the film up to that point. Nevertheless, expect to see the peerless Roger Deakins pick up his second Oscar on a technically challenging production and even in a strong field for Best Picture, you wouldn't bet against this.
When you think you have seen everything about war movies comes this masterpiece.
Oh my God!
Camera direction is outstanding, acting, direction, etc.... Simply Perfection.
A tremendous feat of film-making, which makes you feel as if you are alongside the main characters in this brilliant film. Filmed in one continuous shot it leads to many surprises and an intense feeling throughout the entire film. The story is simple but very effective at showing the horror of WW1 and what it did to these brave young men. Everyone should see this film.
We have crossed across many war movie but 1917 might be a total different for you. For me, it's something a strange way of execution and portrayal. The uninterrupted shots make us believable as a single one hop on me to the edge of the seat many more times on the theater. Roger Deakins was exceptional with his photography along with Lee Smith's brilliant hide way editing. That was in my mind that the film is formatted in one single shot but I just want to experience the truth inside and there is something in my mind that it might have the same pattern as Birdman and Rope. Exactly, it was right. Poetically we can say, the film flows like a river. It has that kinetics from the first frame to the end. Into the list of brilliant war epics, I must add 1917 and give a prominent role there.
Watching this movie is such an experience. I truly recommend it. Cinematography is incredible and the most awesome thing about this movie is that it was filmed with only two long takes! So elaborated! Such an excellent job.
1917 was a wonderful production that fascinated us with camera shots. We can see that the Film costs a lot and that each scenes are predetermined. It's great that the quality of the subject matter and the unnecessary scenes were not included in the film. it's a very impressive film that was watched without being bored.
Dont get me wrong, I dont feel like Mr Mendes Stole elements from Dunkirk but he enhanced the idea of telling a visual story with almost no dialogues. This is great storytelling folks, you know that when you forget there are only two cuts in the movie and thats why you barely breath trough the mains character's odissey.
Very unpredictable, the film is arranged neatly and like real.
I don't expect much when I go to the cinema. After all, most of the movies playing will fade from memory, and only a few will be cherished for generations to come. 1917 caught me by surprise.From the very first shot, it had a sense of timelessness and immediacy, bridging the vast gap between a modern audience, warm, safe, and comfortable in a movie theatre, and the "torn fields of France." The sensory details--barbed wire slicing a soldier's hand, shell holes filled with muddy water, broken trees in the mist, corpses, flies, and rats--were overwhelming. You wanted to look away, but the horrors were filmed with such beauty that you couldn't. It was like a great symphony, majestic and overpowering, stirring your deepest emotions, with so many contrasts--fire and water, light and darkness, life and death--interspersed with scenes of peace and quiet.Visually, 1917 is a masterpiece. However, I found it somewhat lacking in terms of dialogue and character development. The movie was also missing a theme, a metaphor, or a conclusion that would have made it intellectually engaging. Perhaps the omission was deliberate, so as not to distract the viewer from the visual poetry or hinder the pace.Some reviewers are calling 1917 the greatest World War I movie ever. I disagree; I think the honour belongs to All Quiet on the Western Front (1930), based on the classic novel by Erich Maria Remarque. The movie is both visually and intellectually engaging, and the novel is a must-read for anyone interested in World War I. To quote the preface, "This book is to be neither an accusation nor a confession, and least of all an adventure, for death is not an adventure to those who stand face to face with it." This was my biggest issue with 1917: it was, most of all, an adventure, not unlike Jumanji or Indiana Jones. A few times, I thought I was watching a video game.Overall, 1917 was a pleasant surprise, and I strongly recommend it. Go watch it in the cinema. It will blow you away, but it may also remind you that great visuals are not a substitute for great storytelling.
A British General gambles 1600 human lives on a long shot punt during WW1. It's a 2 horse race, the bets are in and odds are extremely short. The track conditions are poor and this is a long distance race. Winx wouldn't blink during this one.
It is a technically beautiful film, it is a very well designed and used sequence plan simulator, the sound effects are magnificent and the soundtrack is great with only one part or another that I thought ended up not matching the film. The photography is good going to spectacular in some takes, the film has a simple story and very well told.
Despite this, the film does not create any charisma with the characters presented in the plot, which ends up affecting the emotional part of the film. The dramatic parts of the film are hardly touching due to the lack of development of the characters, you know very little about them and barely know their names, which in my opinion ends up impacting the complete work.
I liked the ways the camera is positioned, it brings a feeling of war games in the first person, and what adds even more to this feeling is really looking like it is a game with several stages throughout the film and between those stages there is always something happening that disturbs you to go through that with tranquility.
At the same time that the film shows the real grief and chaos of the war in some moments it boasts as something that brings honor to man.
It's a very good film and it's worth taking a chance and checking it out.
It is easy to give this a perfect score - a hugely enjoyable piece of theatre that I couldn't fault and which was made for watching on a big screen. It was an extraordinary piece of work and all credit to those involved in putting it together.
I thought the film got the balance between the narrative, action, drama and emotion just right.I will add a footnote on my frustration with trailers however which fortunately I didn't see for 1917. The trailer for this film apparently gives away some of the vital plot points which will spoil it - in fact I try hard to avoid any trailers of films I am interested in seeing. I know they tend to be put together by the marketeers rather than the directors which is a real shame when they reveal too much.
This film is about as close as it gets to a theme park. But it comes with all the negatives as well as positives of the Big Dipper. I have to say the 'one shot take trick' is very impressive, so full credit to Sam Mendes for pulling that off. It gives a really good sense of what it was like on the front lines following the protagonists throughout there journey. The acting is good but like a rollercoaster there were so many fast loops and quick cameos that I wanted to enjoy the presence of Andrew Scott, Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch for just a bit longer.
I felt sick after watching this film, dizzy from the swooping turning camera I was desperate for an edit! A cut away anything to take me out of it for just a second. It feels like a good one off, but if every film was like this I could see myself becoming sick (literally) of cinema.
Director Sam Mendes controls even the smallest component of this historic recreation of a heroic feat. He keeps the pace fast and full of action. And he confirms, in theory, the feeling that the First World War was nothing more than an abominable futility caused at first by a fight between cousins. The Balkans were the cause of the war at the beginning, but Kaiser William II, son of Frederick III of Germany and Victoria, eldest daughter of Queen Victoria of England, was the one who agreed to help the Austro-Hungarian Empire wage war on Russia. It was the Kaiser who encouraged German nationalism and warlike vocation; who built the German armies and navy.
T.S. Eliot started his most famous poem, "The Waste Land", with the verse April is the cruellest month. Why is April cruel? because it leaves us full of hope and the desire for spring to come soon. Yet... spring lingers with time! In war, we hope that peace will come soon, and yet it lingers with horrors. April in any temperate climate gets tired of the winter and the cold. It wants the light and the heat back. April offers only a few beautiful and pleasantly sunny days; ain't April a provocation, full of rain, mud, cold and false promises?
In 1917, which takes place on April 6 and 7 of that year, Colonel MacKenzie's final sentence (Benedict Cumberbatch) - I hoped today would be a good day. Hope is a dangerous thing - confirms that April is synonymous with false hope. Pessimism wins.
The German withdrawal from the Hindenburg Line - their defensive position built on the Western Front (France) in 1916 in an attempt to curb Anglo-French attack power - is taking place. Mendes' film tells the emotional & exhausting crossing by two English soldiers of the enemy lines. Brightly shot in the sequential-shot (long-take) technique, it takes the viewer into the trenches, out of the trenches (no man's land) and thus enhances realism. Although, technically speaking, the film has more than exactly one shot, the ingenious skill of the extraordinary, 14 times Oscar-nominated cinematographer Roger Deakins manages to mislead the viewer.
There are no slow parts and the journey is electrified from the first minute. Dialogues are, of course, an essential component for the long-take style to work. There are no redundant dialogues and '1917' gives the false impression of being shot in a single scene. A huge technical achievement at a remarkable rhythm. Despite its extraordinary audacity, however, the screenplay gloats in some places. Being the case of a realistic film, one can't help demanding... realism! I'll just give one example: a rat casually blasts a tunnel, and the people inside it would be literally without salvation; the explosion was powerful enough to collapse the entire tunnel, yet they survive. In any case, from now on, whenever avant-garde cinematography and camera handling are discussed, 1917 will be part of the discussion, together with Hitchcock's Rope, Sokurov's The Russian Ark, and a few Oriental filmmakers.
Just came back from the movie, Glad i watched this on the big screen!The whole movie is like a piece of art with non-stop action, emotion and intensity that will keep you on the edge of your seat.Yes the story is simple and ending is predictable, we all know what happened in WWI, but that doesn't take away the beauty of story telling without the need for words.The direction, music, sounds, production design, screenplay and most importantly the cinematography are some of the best i have seen in a long time all combined together in one movie. The amount of hard work i have seen in the making of video is simply mind blowing.Can't wait to watch this again...
I enjoyed this film so much i didn't want it to end, what a film..A MUST SEE.
The new movie of Sam Mendes tells the story of two british soldiers that have to take a message to stop another battalion from falling into a trap. The story is simple but Mendes tells it in a very effective and humane way. Moreover, this is, probably, one of the strongest points of the movie. Mendes shows the humanity and the cruelty of war at the same time through an amazing technique, making the movie look like it was filmed in one continuous shot. This fact, allied with a fantastic work of Roger Deakins and tremendous work of two relatively unknown actors (George MacKay and Dean Charles Chapman), makes this movie an immersive experience and seeming that we are accompanying the two soldiers in this mission as if we were also there. The soundtrack also plays an important role in elevating this film and, certainly, we cannot exclude the amazing visual effects that show clearly what happens during war and the fear a shooting or a bomb may cause.
To sum up, this is an immersive experience fantasticly directed that brings the world war I to the spotlight (rare in Hollywood) making us feel as if we were with that two soldiers that have a very simple, but at the same time, difficult mission. For me, this is one of the best movies of the year and, probably, the decade.
Loved the cinematography and performances. And yes as stated elements of the film were harrowing but something was lacking. I wasn't pulled into the story..... possibly all the positive feedback I had heard may have led to higher expectations as well as a feeling of being manipulated - emotionally (and I often allow myself to be manipulated by lesser films than this). Of course the film is traumatic in parts and again but.....?
This movie is a masterpiece like almost no other. It is a must watch. Raises the bar for cinema.
It's not often, once every decade or two, that Hollywood produces something so extraordinary it'll last for ages. This is one of those films. I was constantly reminded of Lawrence of Arabia by the cinematography, acting and direction. There may be a flaw in this film, but I couldn't find one. Like Lawrence of Arabia, it's best appreciated on the big screen.
Tense all the way through. Amazing how they shot this whole movie in 2 takes. Must watch!
Sam Mendes takes you to the First World War and never lets you go till the end. The cinematographer is a genius, does all the film in one take. Actos are perfect and the scenography is incredible. This movie is a "masterpiece" and deserves all the Oscars!
I would of given this film a 10 if it didn't have such loud, non-stop background music that usually drowned out all voices.
Very clever well produced film. Humbling to watch. Reccomend it.
Score:Entertainment value: 10
Visuals: 9
Soundtrack: 9
Plot: 9
World building and depth: 8
Characters and dialog: 8
Total: 9The good:
Well, what to say? It is phenomenal! One of my best all time cinema experiances. The "one take" is really enaging an captures the feeling of the film perfectly. It is a horrific and emotional movie with great acting. Watch it! I was left in awe when the end credits began.The bad:
I will have to think about it, nothing at all at the moment.
This film pulls you in and doesn't let go until the very end. Magical
Really enjoyed the film, but since moustaches were mandatory in the British army until 1916, I definitely expected to see a lot more facial hair in it. Most men were cleanly shaved. But that obvious fluke aside, I think it was a great movie
As to war dramas, the war itself can be in the foreground (battles, campaigns) or in the background, where small units or individuals are meaningful and their minds and evolvement are dominated by war/military. 1917 is mainly about the latter, with war spinning around personal destinies. The events start running promptly and the journey of 2/1 soldiers is versatile, full of hope and misery, with distress all the time still.All this is captured via talented directing, camerawork, and defined performances, both leading and supporting ones. There are several character actors performing small yet important roles, plus I am sure George MacKay (Lance Corporal William Schofield) will get more significant roles in the future. But, in my vexation, several "individual" scenes with Germans involved appeared not to be realistic, they were apparently meant for the twist paving the way for the next steps in the journey (in particular, I have in mind a certain stabbing, a certain shooting and a certain pursuit which "normally" could not have taken place). Thus, when rating this film, I should assert that the script includes almost only weaknesses here.
Such an ambitious and pristine foray into new forms of filmmaking.
A captivating exploration of life as a soldier in WWI warfare.
The strength of this film is the masterful and unique artistry of single-perspective aesthetics and visuals with zero cuts.
Beautifully filmed and acted.
The story and script were clearly lacking. Definitely not the strength of this film.
If not for the captivating and original approach to filmmaking, I wouldn't give this film a 8/10 stars. Probably would give it a solid 7stars.
But the daring (and might I say, successful) attempt at new approaches to filmmaking talks itself into a bonus point.
8/10 stars.
For nearly 2 hours, Sam Mendes' 1917 kept me on the edge of my seat with immense suspense and almost horror throughout the films runtime. 1917 brings the one shot film style inspired by Birdman (2014) but at an even bigger scale. The one shot style makes you feel even closer to the two soldiers with their intense and demanding mission. The film uses its one shot style to make set pieces feel real, gritty and intense and will leave you in shock and awe when these sequences stop. If you like war films, there is no better cinematic experience delivering the same quality, suspense and emotion in January. With the oscar worthy cinematography of Roger Deakins, the charming and grounded character with the cutting edge directing of Sam Mendes, 1917 is more than just a film, it's an experience, one which all should witness
Watched this movie as I saw The Longest Day for the first time. A totally another movie off course but this movies a so rare. Maybe Platoon can battle with 1917.
*Spoiler Warning*
1917 is a film about 2 WW1 soldiers sent to send a message to a battalion telling them to call of their attack as they are walking into a trap.
This film is full of suspense and will have you on edge at all times as every moment is full of tension and surprises that will freeze you in your seat making you continue watching.
The thing that stands this film out from the other war films is that it was filmed on one continuous shot which gave it a more realistic feel as the actors would be feeling similar to how the soldiers would have felt in WW1.
The camera angle were mainly low and over the shoulder which helps make you feel like you are there with them which helps make the viewer emotionaly attached to the characters and feel sad when they die.
You can see the sheer emotion in the actors eyes and actions throughout the film which gives a realistic tone to the film.
From the conditions of No Mans Land to the Frontline Trenches, the settings of this film are realistic and mesmerising which make the film look like it was actually filmed in WW1 due to the detail in the settings.
Don't watch this film if you don't like to see dead bodies and animals as this film is full of them, showing the impact of WW1 and how soldiers and animals where killed. For example, in one scene they talk about how the germans killed all the cows just so the british couldn't use them for food.
The bond between Blake and Scofield really makes this film better as their friendship really helps the audience understand how they feel and after Blake dies the bond seems to get stronger as Scofield completes the mission in memory of Blake which ends up saving many soldiers who where about to walk into a death trap.
The film is really worth watching as it is emotional and informative whilst creating bonds between audience and characters making the film stay with the audience after it is finished.
I was literally on the edge of my seat throughout this film. While the basic story is simple the feelings it evokes in you are not. One of the best films I've seen. Would watch again.
The cinematography in this movie is just breathtaking!!it makes you believe that you are truly a part of the story from the very first minute till the last one...the acting it's very very good and realistic that makes you feel the loss and the difficulties of an actual war,but on the other hand the plot could be a little more unpredictable!
"A Visual Spectacle" - well, these movies are just class apart !
Though the best actor Oscar would be Joaquin's this year, but I'm almost certain that 1917 would easily grab the best picture academy award among several others that it truly deserves ! Yes, it's just unbelievably good !!It's literally a war poetry wherein Sam Mendes shows us almost every aspect of a war scenario,threading it alongside the terrifyingly eventful journey of the protagonists accompanied by exceptional camera work,nail-biting background score & a cinematic environment that'll just demand your attention,while you're simply glued to the screen,in anticipation of what next is to follow, in this roller-coaster of a ride !The execution is mind-blowing,with beautifully directed long takes, I couldn't even figure out a single point where the editing was evident.Flawless to say the least.
You'll feel as if you're a part of the entire movie,it's way too immersive & atmospheric.That having said, I did find it a bit slow in a few parts but the decreased pace helps you get involved with the ongoing acts even more, thus enhancing your overall experience !But yes, this movie deserves to be watched at a cinema hall. It's specifically made for that. And with probably just a week's time left for it at the cinemas,I would request you to give it a watch if you have the time, you won't regret it even one bit.A group of 5-10 people in the hall, also clapped once the closing credits started rolling. The movie really does get to you.Try to give this terrific,super-engaging movie a watch if you have the time !
It is, by all means, a sensational movie with some of the most iconic scenes to be ever present in a war-based movie !
Alongside Apocalypse Now and Dunkirk, this is a very visually stunning war film, but much better than the latter of those two. Probably my third favourite film in the genre (behind Apocalypse Now and The Deer Hunter).There's not much I can fault this film on, other than a few small nitpicks about occasional conveniences that just so happen to pan out for the main character and some of the people he encounters. While it never crossed over into propaganda territory, I do think the German soldiers were excessively written as savages. It could have been to the movie's benefit to have at least one scene that humanizes BOTH sides of the war.The film can also drag in some scenes, with lots of lingering shots that look fantastic but could be a nuisance on repeat viewings. And that's just it. The best element of the film is that the whole thing is practically one long lingering shot, and this can also, intermittently, be seen as its weakness. But this is all just nitpicking.
While I might have spent a lot of time writing about the negatives, this shouldn't take away from the fact that if you've ever enjoyed a war movie, then this is a must-see.It's very immersive, largely due to the cinematography, but even the conversations that characters have in the more mellow moments feel quite realistic. While the plot isn't particularly a point of interest, you do grow to care about some of the characters. 2014's Birdman did a similar thing with the "one-shot" aesthetic, and while I enjoyed the characters and themes of that film more than 1917, it's 1917 that I think has a more justified and immersive usage of the style.7/10.
Sam Mendes' 1917 is a visual war poetry, both ambitious in scope and grandeur in scale where two Birdmen try to Save sixteen hundred Private Ryans and Corporal Blakes.The plot sounds like the 'saving the world' journey of Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee of the Shire from the Fellowship of the Ring, particularly from its end where they are left by Aragon to be on their own to the Return of the King through the lifeless no-man land, perpetual trenches, ghastly rapid rivers and bone-chilling grotesque remnants of the war. Though the comparison to Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan is inevitable, the scene involving the German fighter pilot, might feel less original as it borrows elements of character arc straightaway.For utmost every ebb and flow, writing commemorates this epic voyage of Blake and Schofield, realistically played by both actors portraying these roles. Before every major obstacle/storm, there is some room for calmness where these characters come across something evocative so they get to have a brief chat about them which for most parts is likeable or at least, puts the morale of a soldier before us.Roger Deakins' cinematography is heralded as one of the greatest of all time, which in fact is true, can still be put in an infamous, not well-known debate. There are numerous 360 panning shots in open fields and tracking shots within trenches, which might leave an audience disoriented as L.A.Times critic Justin Chang states in his review. Yet the greatness vastly outsmarts this negligible irritation.There are two particular sequences in the film, that can easily be considered as two of the greatest cinematic moments of the decade. Thanks to the gut-wrenching score (sixteen hundred man) of Thomas Newman, the light men and the production designers!In the end, staging like how the story unwraps under the trunk of a tree and winds up on a similar note, is what makes this cinema, an art-house and not just another blockbuster entertainment.
In awe of this movie. An absolutely immersive experience that has you tense and gripped from the moment it begins and carries you with it throughout, it will stay with me for a long time. So ultra realistic, even in simple terms the muddy boots slipping as the two make their way across no man"s land brings home the realities. George Mackay's performance shouldn't be underestimated, you can't take your eyes off him and yet it never felt anything but honest and real, never caught "acting' he's just simply wonderful, he needs nominating for what looks like sheer endurance and beauty and pureness of performance. Other names too are great. But also the music, direction and Roger Deakins had left me stunned. Roger/Sam must win the Oscars. Beautiful, poignant, inventive, just amazing. Can't fault it and can't stop thinking about it either. Sam Mendes has produced something very special.
This is set to be 1 of the greats. The cinematography is absolutely beautiful, the score is haunting and everything about this movie is great!!In the later days of the great war. 2 British corporals are given the task of delivering a message to a battalion miles away before its charge will end in disaster by the awaiting German trap. 1 of the Corporals brothers is in this battalion making it a much more desperate mission for the Lads. This is a story of the difficulties the men face on their extremely treacherous mission.Might I add that the scenes in no mans land are the most horrific I've scene to date. This film manages to capture to true horror that was the great war. Nothing great about it. Just anguish, horror, grief and misery that our forefathers endured. A couple of touching moments too but the true star of the movie was the genius of cinematography that is a true feat on it's own added by great performances by Dean-Charles Chapman and George Mackay accompanied by an acceptional script. The best ww1 movie to date.
Spent most of the time either crying or with my heart racing out of my chest. Very gripping film with amazing cinematography! It portrays the war in its true horrific style but through the eyes of one soldier and the journey he faced. Defiantly recommend watching, seen in its full glory at the cinema!
Not what I was expecting, visually fantastic but didn't real care for the characters, bit like COD game. No rewatch value or thought provoking study of war, more dumbed down history for tge generation. Plus points looked good.
"1917", a great movie for people who loves historical films, with just a little bit of action, and not to exagerated. I just found particularly interesting, that in all movie you can't notice any cuts, it's like the all film was record at once. I'm giving this movie, for sure, 8 stars.
Sam Mendes' 1917 delivers some truly awe-inspiring set pieces with the aid of its one-shot effect, but fails to take advantage of it when trying to bring stress levels back down to Earth for its quieter scenes. Not only does it not take full advantage of it, but at times the one-shot becomes truly distracting and out of place due to wonky camera work. 1917's spikes of gorgeous tension make it a must-see film, just one that does not live up to its potential.
This is the movie all previous and following war movies will be judged by. Painfully gritty heartwarmingy soft at times to next kick you in the vulnerables.
Cinematic masterpiece. Absolutely will not let you go.
Utterly compelling heart of darkness masterpiece, playing out a million stories of vicious, brutal, random, pointless death with an unbearable poignant ending
This was the best movie I watched in 2019 and one of the best war drama movies I have ever seen
Of all the movies nominated for the best picture award at the 2020 Oscars, this one is definitely the best. I wastched it in 2d IMAX , and trust me, that's the way its meant to be watched. The movie goes from one set piece to another without leaving the side of the protagonist (aside from one moment in which the lead blacks out and wakes up, during which a lot of time has passed.)
This movie is a technical marvel and even the background score is amazing (watch out for a sequence set amidst glaring lights, the whole score is amazing.)
This is realistic movie and I never left my eyes of it.
This film is brilliant at showing that the war wasn't fought or won by the corporals and the general but the millions of people who risked there lives for their country. The cinematography was fantastic the smooth transition between cameras was almost un noticeable and made if very immersive for the audience.However if your going to see this film see its high score on imdb and rotten tomatoes just know that's because of the cinematography and not necessarily because it was well acted or because of its great depiction of the war. Overall the film had me gripped despite dry moments and definitely worth a watch in IMAX and it just adds to that immersion.
Saw this movie last weekend omg what an amazing movie it was heartbreaking in places but a brilliant war movie best iv'e seen for ages
This movie is amazing! While not based on an actual event, the story is based on stories from the directors grandfathers WW1 experiences. Probably the best war movie since Saving Private Ryan (Dunkirk is up there as well). And the editors make it look like a single shot which looks incredible.
Sad but this film shows us that we are strong creature and we can handle anything just we must go forward.
Saw it today. I have no words. I love that's one shot. Great job!
Pretty good movie. Intense at parts which gives you an idea of what war is really like. I loved the way it's filmed but I noticed it consistently.
Just see it, anything I write won't do it justice. It deserves to win all 10 Oscars that it's nominated for.
I saw this film just about 45 minutes ago. This film is brilliantly shot, edited and delivered all due to the ingenuity and meticulous nature of Sir Sam Mendes and Sir Roger Deakins. One thing this film does very well is remind us how intricate fate and the human nature is in this film. Its like we know these characters personally or as if we were there on the front lines with them.Some films deserve to be on the big screen, this is one of those films. 2019 has been an astounding year for films and 1917 supports that statement proudly
A very quiet and loud movie at the same time. Unbelievably beautiful shoot all the way to the end. Even tho it's not great pretty smart script.. simple yet really make you ful.
From a cinematographic standpoint, this is movie is an absolute masterpiece. Sam Mendes achieved something amazing, that makes one not even wanting to blink.
Also notable is the very uncensored and personal view on war the movie tries, and succeeds to show. You feel like you are there with the characters, for better or for worse - my mother, a nurse, got a little sick, because she could imagine the smell of death a little too well. She still enjoyed the movie a lot tho.
All in all I have nothing to complain about. Camera is awesome, editing is on point, the set design is painfully realistic, story is good and has it's twists, acting is great, the soundtrack is amazing. There isn't much more to say
Every now and then a war movie comes around that does everything it can to place the audience in the reality of the topic, even if the actual plot is a little bit hokey. Saving Private Ryan famously did this, especially for the Omaha Beach landing sequence.1917 does it again for the Western Front of World War 1, in a way I can't remember ever seeing before. It's probably the most accurate depiction of WW1 since the original All Quiet on the Western Front. The attention to detail as the two main characters make their way through the story is incredible, and reminds me of some of the most horrific stories I've read of the war- of soldiers finding themselves laying in mud surrounded by the bodyparts of their mates (and enemies), or of a buddy getting so stuck in the mud in a dangerous place that nobody could rescue him, and he slowly goes insane as he starves to death and is eventually shot out of pity. This last one doesn't happen in the movie, but you could certainly imagine how it could.The way the movie is filmed, famously as a single sequence/shot with only one or two real cuts, makes it extremely immersive. That, plus the attention to detail, turns the film from a typical war movie into more of a horror story. You are seeing the action from the characters' eyes, and it is impossible to know what is coming next. The tension and suspense are as thick as Passchendaele mud.What a great film. It is a masterpiece.
War dramas are a dime a dozen. This one was cool, but really they all just start to blur the line for me. It was interesting to watch the war from the perspective of two dudes in a single shot type of way. The actual sets or locations were amazing. Dead bodies everywhere and lots of blood.It wasn't anything special, but I really enjoyed myself. It had weird moments too. But it was real good.I would recommend it7 stars
A simple plot with an impeccable storytelling and intense performances. It was a breathtaking technical achievement those long take shots, thrilling background score and flawless editing makes it an absolute immersive experience.
2 hours of an eye catching epic war drama from Sam Mendes which should be seen. This film will embrace every movie buff who are starving out there.
I was totally in the film and by the end have a tears in my eyes. What a master top camera work. The madness off war makes me silent. Oscars!!!
The way this movie is shot bring you inside of the action and make you feel like you are following in the footsteps of the character.
The only thing missing was the mustard gas. Viewers are drawn into the story from the onset. The portrayal of what conditions might have been like during WWI were spot on. The story was gripping and at times appropriately tense.I can't understand some of the criticisms I've read. Germans being a lousy shot? Everyone is a lousy shot when running through rubble while shooting at someone also running through rubble, firing what is essentially a short barrel single shot bolt action 30-06.Despite some reviewers complaints, the story did in fact end clearly and appropriately. All loose plot lines were tied up.I agree that the plot is a little Saving Private Ryan like, but don't let that deter you from this film. It was very, very well done and time well spent. Everything from the scenery, to the cinematography, to the musical score were perfect.
This movie is genious. The way they present the environment and they way they picturized it, is a work of art. Even though there were not much gun fire going on like typical war movies, you will not realized how the time passed so quickly. This movie is about how the real war looks like and the emotions of it. And the only way you will not like this movie is if you watch Ramboo like movies.
Inspiring story combined with mind blowing cinematography = Go see it.
This movie was amazing, lightening,sound,action and the actors were amazing, I saw a lot of movies and this was the best wow this amazed me!
Undoubtably a very good movie.
In todays climate of trashy politically charded progressive agenda set pieces, this was a breathe of fresh air..
No gender baiting no race baiting just a story.
Well made and has some great imaginary, a stand out set piece was when our hero was entering a ruined town, the shadows and subtle almost subliminal imagines of German soliders gave expostion as to what was to come and the dangers that lay ahead.. it was masterfully filmed.. blink and you missed the.A few silly little plot holes here and there still didn't ruin the experience, the milk from the last cow in France that had survived German machine gun fire(obvious a set piece for the baby sence which was not needed) the none lesson our hero picked up from the second German that shopped him!! He actually HAD FOOD in his rigging, why was he chuntering on about have no food? The Enfield ammo clip he had only holds 5 rounds, he shot way more than that.. even the scene at the sniper in the building he fired more than 5 rounds without a reload.. im just picking now..Great movie no the less.. and those few points are just me being picky.
Shot in three big takes, the movie has got an excellent image and a superb staging
Mendes' directorial style shines in this fairly "paint by the Spielberg numbers" lean yet big film. It's quite literally a one at right line approach in filmmaking and storyline.The score, pacing, and the nearly impeccable camera work drive this nearly non stop sequential film about a young pair of soldiers sent into enemy fronts to deliver a message to abort a major military move that the Germans have actually planned on.If you like the pacing of Dunkirk, enjoy the cinematic camera lens of Malicks Thin Red Line and the simplistic premise of Spielbergs take, Saving Private Ryan, you'll find a lot here on all fronts.War is violent, so theres the expected war time violence but nothing too exploitive.Best Picture? I lean towards Parasite, as the premise of the script is fairly predictable as it is...not even sure spoilers are a thing in this film---but direction has to considered for Mendes for the scale alone and the "in the bunker" camera work. Sound and editing are spot  on, which makes for a very enjoyable war film.8/10
Even going in knowing that this was filmed on a single line, I was still astonished how Mendes pulled this off. This is a raw, hard war movie with raw, hard realities. Emotions are skewed in war; there is no time to mourn on the battlefield. Yet the acting is so good that the players appropriately convey sadness, loss, and pain in their own brief way, then continue on with the mission. The scene changes have almost a video game quality to them, from trench to bunker to large expanses of battlefield, from clouds to sun, from soaking wet to dry. I felt imersed in all of the physical textures in this film much like the Revenant, where you left the theatre feeling cold and sore. I want to say no more here about this film and encourage others to go see it on the big screen. You will have not seen anything like this before. Absolutely stunning.
This movie's main selling point was that it was made to look as if the whole movie was filmed in one take. The main problem I have with this movie, though, is that Mendes abandons that idea halfway through the movie. He attempts to justify this single noticeable cut in the movie by having the main character come back from being knocked unconscious. This cut could have been avoided in numerous ways, though. He could have held a static shot on the unconscious body of the main character and shown time going by through the sun going down, since he was knocked unconscious while the sun is still up and wakes up at nighttime. Or Mendes could have the same dynamic shot that goes to black but then go back to the same shot when the character wakes up. Those are just two possibilities but there are plenty of creative ways to avoid cutting in the middle of a movie built around not cutting. This was a very annoying part of the movie and really affected how well this movie is as a whole since that was the main idea for the movie. Also, the cinematography left a lot to be desired, especially from somebody as amazing of a cinematographer as Roger Deakins, but there were some very good looking shots still since again it is Roger Deakins. For example, the scene at the end of the movie where the main character is running across the battlefield is easily the absolute best part of the movie. It looked great, the acting was great even though there was no dialogue but the main actor still displayed such determination and fear that it was still a very good performance. The acting in the movie was very good throughout, too, especially from Dean-Charles Chapman. He has a very expressive face that allows him to show many emotions without saying much. George MacKay, though, while he did do a good job for most of his scenes, his death scene did not feel very convincing. The writing in the movie, while not amazing, was still attention grabbing and the dialogue felt realistic enough. Given all of this, if I had to rate the movie, I would give it around a 6-7/10 leaning more towards a 7/10. That one scene I previously talked about alone is worth seeing this movie for. If they had not cut that one time in the middle of the movie I would have given it an 8/10.
A fantastic experience! A superb portrayal of the Great War. A trully masterpiece that deeply depicts the horrors of war. Though the movie has its flaws (yes it has!) Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins managed to create a classic.
This film pulls you in and doesn't let go. You'll experience everything of the horror of trench warfare in WWI. Last time you felt this immersed was 'Saving Private Ryan'. Beautifully filmed, well acted, with as basic a plot as could be: get through enemy territory quickly or a lot of men will die.The POV perspective throughout can be a bit unnerving, but also helps pull you in. Same for the extended shot takes. You'll feel you're along for the ride. One to see over again.Only thing that cost it a 10 were some "Huh?" moments. If the mission is so critical, why send only two men? A squad can move just as quickly - they're walking after all - with more chance of success. We see airplanes throughout. Why not have them fly over and drop the orders? The plane crash was unbelievable; one plane, into the one building around and on top of the men?? The killing then was not at all the way at the time, when there was still a sense of chivalry - as evidenced by them saving the pilot - particularly among pilots.
I don't even like war movies but this is a masterpiece
Like there are moments like fucking blow my mind, and it's better to watch it on the cinema.
This movie offers superb demonstration of techniques in film-making: camera movement, light and shade, editing etc. However, attempts to compare it with "Saving Private Ryan" are shallow and hollow. While both depict the ordeal experienced by soldiers in war, "1917" is one-note, focusing on a single protagonist whose character is quite ordinary. "Private Ryan" offers a rich collection of various characters with depth. As to daring the audience with the raw brutality of war, "Private Ryan" needs no copycat. "1917" is not even trying to replicate "Private Ryan" as some shallow critics suggest. Compared with the agony of a dying young soldier caressing his own spilled guts weeping for mom, a few bleached corpses in "1917" look like Disney.The story line is simple. The Germans have laid a trap to lure an Allie troop to mount an assault, when they will be massacred. Two soldiers are sent by a general to brave no man's land to give warning to the commander to avert disaster. One of them dies saving the life of the other. The survivor's Odyssey-like journey culminates in accomplishing the mission thereby saving the life of thousands of soldiers. The tragic ending note is his finding his deceased companion's brother (a member of the troop he just saved) and passing on the sad news.Playing the lead protagonist, relatively unknown George MacKay has turned in a solid performance as the Lance Corporal who is charged with the mission. Of the stellarr cameos, three stand out in particular. Bookending the movie are Colin Firth as the General who dispatches the order to stand down and Benedict Cumberbatch as the Colonel receiving it. Richard Madden plays the Lieutenant, the brother of the deceased companion of the protagonist, in a most poignant scene at the very end of the movie.
A movie which you just don't watch but become a part of. After watching the trailer of the film in 2019, I was sure that I will watch this film on a big screen. Although the trailer style did look like Dunkirk but the objective in the movie is completely different. This is a one shot film which means there are no cuts throughout the film, except for the forced cut during the interval by movie theatre.Movie starts with a wide shot like one of a windows wallpaper, which makes you feel comfortable watching it, but as soon as characters starts walking from wide plateau towards narrow trenches, we start getting uncomfortable with the space and feel more claustrophobic, thus we become part of it as we as a character feel what's happening in the film and this is without any fancy 4DX setup. As we move in the film, there are many more instances which makes us go WOW.There are many movies made before this film which were one shot, Birdman was one of them. But unlike Birdman, this movie has very less camera pans in dark alley to make a cut, plus changing lighting conditions and landscape makes it more complex. Credits to Sam Mendez (Director) for having a vision of making a war film in one shot and full credit to Roger Deakins (Cinematographer) & Lee Smith (Editor) for making it happen. Truly a masterpiece.This movie must be experienced in IMAX for true cinematic experience which will stay with you for longer period of time.
A quick search of top rated titles have only two movies rating over 9. Why are there are SO MANY user ratings at 9.5 or 10 for 1917? Is this movie really almost perfect? Far from it. I enjoyed the technical aspects of the film making immensely, however it was the one shot idea that made the movie ultimately unsatisfying. Great idea, but overplayed to the detriment of the pacing and story. I got bored several times due to having to follow the actors constantly. Followed by brain mashing cliche after forced plot after totally improbable scenario that seemed crammed in to allow the one shot feel of the story to flow.Nothing wrong with the idea, but not the entire movie. There are many parts to the story that worked well using this style, however Children Of Men did it better because they chose where to have the one take scenes for maximum impact.After 1917 I felt a bit like I had drunk too many beers, I felt good for a while, but the goodness didn't last for the whole experience. I should have known when to stop, Sam Mendes didn't.
The best way to describe 1917 is a incredibly tense roller-coaster. Loved the main stars George Mackay & Dean-Charles Chapman were terrific throughout; they bought the passion and energy needed to make this a great movie. 1917 is extremely entertaining, you can't blink at all watching this film. The plot was put together perfectly, I had no idea that this movie was based on a true story. 1917 wants all the smoke in 2020, it lives up to all the hype despite being officially released in the U.S in 2020. Overall 1917 is the leader in best moves thus far for 2020.
In like 30 years into future people will probably talk about this movie that is how great it is. Following two young soldiers go into journey that will save many lives in "one shot" is the peak of the movie making in 21st century.This masterpiece must be praised for a lot things.One shot filming is beyond this world and words can't describe how it makes you feel. Because scenes feel so long and takes take so much time tension and actions of our characters are elevated. Moving camera through so many things and obstacles that cinematographer Roger Deakins faced and his solution for every scene is brilliant and even if you try to pick point where he cuts, slides, fades camera is difficult. How time goes you realise that our characters are going to face more and more difficult things and the thing that just keeps you tight in seat.Each "set" or scene has its own gems and gives different feelings. From scary to tense to death threatening to relaxed to heaven like to tragic feelings it just has no flaws and it is because of how much all actors rehearsed and knew exactly what to do and when gives you emotional rollercoaster.Directing of the movie of this proportions looks like just hardcore moviemaking and it feels like it would be so hard and you are right it had to be very difficult to move so many pieces to get perfect scenes that feel flawless and flowing like river.Let's not forget that you are getting teased by story and how it always manages to throw you off certain feelings and emotions to another ones that might even be opposite it like 2 minutes time. It's so simple premise yet done in such fashion that will keep you interested whole time. Movie is 2 hours long and it feels like you have witnessed whole day in 2 hours.Performances are great even though they are not center of point but two young actors George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman are great at what they are doing. There are also scenes with Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Andrew Scott and Benedict Cumberbatch that are fantastic, just fantastic.Beautiful, powerful, moving, tense and will keep you hooked to your bones. 4/4
This is insane. I have no idea how did they shoot this movie? How did they plan the sequences? Do we have man power or technology to accomplish a task like this in this planet? I just don't understand. How? I just can't believe it. This is absolutely brutal success. Well done. Congratulations Roger Deakins for your upcoming academy award. Well done to every person who worked in this project.
1917 is the story of brotherhood and friendship during the war. What's beautiful in 1917 is that it's a very simple story, a basic plot but told with so much ambiguity and depth.
Like Roma last year, 1917 is definitely an immersive film, it enhances the conditions of human beings during war. The one-take technic makes it more immersive and easily brings emotions, suspense and tension to the simple plot.
Technically, it's 10/10. The cinematography is PERFECT. The set decoration is so specific and accurate. The score brings emotions and the sounds and effects are intense. It seems that all reunites to make it a good movie.
Now, why 9 not 10 out of 10. I think it misses something that could have made it the best of the year. And that missing thing is definitely on the plot which is too simple, and predictable for me. I think they could've had one more emotional climax of an intensity like no other scene in the film, it would've been perfect. Not saying that there's no emotional scene of the film (there are plenty actually), but those scenes are like on the same level of emotional degree. Another one with a little bit more would've fit perfectly.
Now, I think it's still a frontrunner for Best Picture, though there are so many great films in competition that I think everything's possible now.
I've just left the cinema after watching 1917 and I'm not ashamed to say that I've just cried my heart out.What a powerful film with beautiful and painstakingly clear cinematography. Perfectly timed emotion invoking elements within a perfect and perfectly executed script.Oh such excellence in direction and camera work, together with superb acting.Shame about the unnecessary "F*" words which probably would not have been common in 1917. Why do they have to be included in this script?
This is nothing for the instant gratification generation. They will haul out their cellphone after watching a couple of minutes.
For everyone else, everything... The music, drama, the rythm of the scenes, the story that is being told, brilliant.
Quite an astonishing creation, this movie.
The white knuckle tension combined with long harmonic takes, creates a knot in your stomach that will last.
A superb balance between the feeling of terror in the eyes of the actors without dwelling in the gut wrenching gore and the results of a war.
This is one of the greatest movies ever made, telling a wartime story and portraying it for what it really is. A sad, sad thing!
1917 is a masterpiece with Sam Mendes skill. The movie is shot so well it brought you to world war one. the acting from the two leads is fantastic, bringing realism and drama to the war it felt like a very detailed documentary. The story is realistic and simple. the movie is 2 hours long feeling like you went on the mission with Blake and Scholfeld. If you like movies you should see this. 1917 might be a new step in cinema.
Not always comfortable viewing, and in places not for the sensitive, but a very powerful film well worth seeing again. Personal issue I had was that the early scenes, running through the trenches, made me slightly queasy as the camera twisted and turned through the trench, following the characters step by step. However, I quickly got over it.......
Great movie, great direction, great story, great acting. This is a MUST see.Two men are giving a task to deliver a message to another camp 8 miles away, this message will stop 1600 men from death if delivered promptly, and the enemy are are trying to hinder their every move.Thrilling, engaging and brilliant.
1917 is a perfect example of how a simple story can be turned into a masterpiece using film making ingenuity.It has literally turned the direction and screenplay business on its head by changing the rules of the game.Earlier the audience used to interpret a movie by watching a series of frames.With 1917 we see this definition evolve into a series of lengthy shots.To accomplish such a task in a predefined space would have been a quotidian thing but here we see the imagination painted on a canvas of World War 1 which is an outrageous attempt in itself and the result is simply astounding.No doubt it will be one of the front runners at the Oscars which works big time not only because of awe inspiring cinematography but also because of the screenplay.The soul of the film is infectious and makes it one of the best World War drama movies to come out of Hollywood till date.Seldom we see cinema transforming right in front of our eyes and movies that challenge hard to bring such a change definitely deserve all the respect in the world.1917 JUST EARNED IT!
If you love Cinema just choose the biggest screen in a theatre and just go and have Cinematic Orgasm watch 1917
You will be awestruck amazed and will immerse yourself in brilliance of Cinematography, Script, Art Direction, If you love Cinema just choose the biggest screen in a theatre and just go and have Cinematic Orgasm watch #1917
You will be awestruck amazed and will immerse yourself in brilliance of Cinematography, Script, Art Direction, Performances, Editing, Background Music, Direction, Production, Costumes, Detailing in each and every department.This is Cinematic Brilliance!!
A must watch for all students of Cinema..all will come out richer with experience and the aroma of this will stay with you long after...If it doesn't sweep all the awards....it would be a shame...
Will watch it again and again ...!!
s the film shot in 'One Shot' ??
Go and be awed ..and pls come back and discuss it..this is EDUCATION AND REVERENCE !!, Editing, Background Music, Direction, Production, Costumes, Detailing in each and every department.This is Cinematic Brilliance!!
A must watch for all students of Cinema..all will come out richer with experience and the aroma of this will stay with you long after...If it doesn't sweep all the awards....it would be a shame...
Will watch it again and again ...!!
s the film shot in 'One Shot' ??
Go and be awed ..and pls come back and discuss it..this is EDUCATION AND REVERENCE !!
First of all Happy New Year to you all. This is my first movie review of 2020. Sam Mendes directed one incredible film. The one Shot throughout the whole film kept me on edge. This movie had all kinds of emotions, it had intensity, gripping, action, and very well thought of. The characters made you feel like you are in the movie. Some scenes made you feel scared for them. Their element of surprises and danger. Especially when you have to hear what is going on the background. Personally I don't think this movie is boring. I was on edge of my seat for the characters. 1917 is awesome.
From the moment the movie began it had you encapsulated in the sheer task that Lay ahead- the movie has everything- great story - gripping suspense - amazing cinematography- great acting - you became part of the journey- you felt the thrill the tension the emotion- simply terrific- if you loved hacksaw ridge this is a must
What I liked the most about this film is the way it is shot. The cinematography and direction of this film is outstanding, it truly is a visual stunner. The decision to film this as a 'one continuous shot' look was a brave decision and I'm sure many on the project had their doubts and possibly protests. I'm glad they pursued with it as it really pays off.The film follows two young soldiers, in a fairly simple plot - to deliver a message to call off an attack crossing through enemy lines. Although there are a many of special effects (you may have seen a plane crash in the trailer) the decision to tell the story using a continuous shot really adds to the trials and tribulations our protagonists face and makes this a more emotionally charged film.The film is always moving forward and there are many usages of camera angles which give more of a 360 degree view of what the soldiers are navigating and experiencing, rather than just seeing things through their eyes in a straight line. It was a really engaging technique and I liked the way we never traveled backwards as an audience except for one key instance which you will need to go see the film to understand.While I haven't seen all the films represented under the best cinematography category at the oscars, surely 1917 must win!
timo filme com uma direo magistral do Sam Mendes
Gah, brilliant! One of the best war films I've ever seen!
From start to end of this movie was very engaging, Obviously they take several shots but shown like one shot movie, Must watch movie and i'm sure this year it takes many awards. Amazing experience
I wasn't really into war movies but what a masterpiece this movie was. From storytelling to the acting. Everything was just great. No wonder it has already been nominated for 10 Academy awards. This movie deserves it. 9/10 would recommend
Very entertaining.Finally someone depicting the World Wars as they should be. Love the token commonwealth diversity which made it so real to me. Why haven't Directors done this before? Genius
I hate to spoil a good movie........But why not just drop coded messages from some planes.....
That way you don't have to use runners......!!??
I actually haven't seen it yet...so I will update the review later.......
However the above was my first thought on seeing rushes of the movie......
The Allies had lots of planes by 1917......!!
Don't fool yourself. This isn't just a movie. This is truly piece of art. Most amazing cinematography i ever seen in one of the most realistic war movies on all times. 20 years after winning first Oscar the time comes for another one for Sam Mendes.
The one shot technique is brilliantly done. Edge of the seat stuff
Some of the best cinematography I have ever seen. The movie itself is fairly boring and slow. Not a ton happens but I think that is the point. To show that war isn't just constant gunfire and explosions. There is a lot of travelling in between those more violent things and more too the soldiers involved.This will win best cinematography at the Oscars for sure.
Sam Mendes has done a tremendous job. Cinematography is on point. Feels like the movie is shot in one take. The pace of the movie is steady and the background score keeps the audience enchanted. Definitely one of the best movies of 2019.
1917 is a glorious Shot film. This is the best war movie which I have ever seen. The entire movie made to take it's shot at one single shot
I didn't notice it at the beginning of the movie, but after 10-15 minutes into it I started to realize there were no cuts. I'm not sure how it's done, no idea at all if it's really a one shot or there are some imperceptible cuts, but the thing is that the human eye cannot perceive any cuts. At least everything seemed to me really seamless, except for just 10 seconds of blank screen on purpose to portray the main character's blackout. Hats off, really! Amazing camera and photography. I reallly enjoyed every minute of the film.
Absolutely superb simple portrayal of a few hours in the life of ordinary soldiers. Beautifully filmed, disturbing, realistic. One of the great WW1 films.
1917 is one of the greatest war movies of all time. The direction of this movie is mesmerising. A true testimony to human will and a remainder of the sacrifices that so many soldiers made during WW1.
With everything that has been going on it seems that this is the perfect time for us to reminded about the horrors of war.
Everyone in that era responded to war as it was, accept it as another day to live. Their emotion follow the mind resistance to make everything makes sense. This is bloody war, what do you gonna expected it? Pile of bodies, killing stock, civilian people miseries , an hungry orphan baby-girl. All check. it is conventional.They had suppressed all emotions to survive, but survive are not, never-mind, better life await.an then the sphereas like i saw The Raid The Redemption, but in silence, in stasis. no arggh ahhhh punch, no glorifies kill count's came from brawl everywhere, but the terror are the same! Everyone can kill you in every direction, and you knew you gonna hit, whether through bullets, bayonet, or shells.then you act as the man in queue, waiting to be slain. You know its will comin but you must act as everyone act: placid.
This film manages to look at the First World War in a different perspective to many others. It focuses on a race against time to warn a company against an imminent attack that is a trap. It's strength is the way that it combines at times incredible tension and danger with effective paced character development. This is only possible because of two stunning performances from its leads MacKay and Chapman. The ordinariness of these two characters makes the heroism more impressive and believable. A film that has real humanity .Great cinematography too.
I entered the movie thinking I was going to see another war movie. Another thousand bullets killing a hundred people. I entered with high expectations but low hopes. But I can't describe what I thought when I left. How can I?I have only been moved by two other movies as much as this movie; Shawshank and The Revenant. I almost never feel emotion other than excitement over a movie. But this movie was one that no man can describe in less than one hundred words. This was the best war movie I have ever seen.
What is depicted on screen is a work of art than a delineation of war. Sam Mendes 1917 is a visual war poetry,
Other than the technicity of the work, The film is badly written, the number of plot holes and unnecessary coincidences is unforgivable .A solid 7,5/10
Honestly one of the most beautiful pieces of cinematography I've ever seen. Using extremely minimal shots and having only one noticeable shot change in the entire film, this epic story grips you every second. This film holds you by the heart as it shows the hell on earth that changed the life's of millions during WW1. Please, please, I implore everyone to see this and experience a battle of emotions as you follow the characters mission across the frontlines.
Excellent film. Nearly lost me early on with the dodgy accents.
(the average Tommy wouldn't sound the Ts like that) but that's nitpicking.
This film is brilliant.
Well, the Story is quite simple;
the script is OK;
of course, the actors are just great;but what makes this movie so very special is the camera!Just fantastic work!
If this would have been WITHOUT the impressive camera work, Id say its a 7 out of 10 stars...
But they just packed the 9 stars for "forcing me to watch without blinking"!
Its been very long, since I was so impressed.
I enjoyed this movie more than I expected I would. I am not big on war movies. The scenery seemed great to me, and though there were visually stunning scenes, they didn't try to pile on explosion after explosion to cater to that crowd. The two leads were at the same time heroes and regular guys. I could almost picture myself on their position. Moments of extreme courage and bravery under fire were balanced by totally justified panic and fear. There were also quieter moments here and there, breaks from sometimes hard to bear tension. Finally, there was a plot twist that seems normal looking back at it, but it shocked me at the time. I will leave it at that.So while I probably won't watch it again anytime soon, I do recommend it, even to viewers like me, who aren't big on war movies. As a side note, one viewer warned others NOT to compare this movie to Saving Private Ryan. I guess he thought it doesn't compare with it. Maybe I should give Private Ryan a second look. I didn't get through it the first time.
If Amy Farrah Fowler reviewed 1917 she would ask why they didn't have the RAF deliver the message.
Quite proud of the job done with directing and photography: I love the camera movement as points to our protagonists nearly for the entire picture.
The screenplay is very simple yet effective.
I got quite emotional at the end when Will makes the extra mile trying to reach his comrade's brother.
Every few years there is a film that jumps out and makes you think about how cinema can be used to inform us of historical importance. This is one gd example
Wow what a film that holds you brings you in and shows the horrors that these men faced day after day. A simply story and everything was perfect the acting the sets were amazing everything was just perfect....
Even an attempt to make a movie like this should be appreciated; nevertheless an exceptionally beautiful movie that takes most of us to the world we "fortunately" were not present to see. Schofield (MacKay) - "The Last Man Standing"
The movie is shot with the camera following the two main characters and made and edited to look like it's one big shot. I love the intimacy this technique brings to the film as we really get a sense of everything that is happening, and we never miss anything because there are no visible scene breaks. Some may find the one-shot technique boring, as it shows everything that happens in their journey, but I found it so interesting to be able to be put in their shoes. The cinematography, score and acting are phenomenal and add perfectly to the directing style of the film.
The pace of the movie is excellent and it shocks me to believe they were able to shoot this all in one or two takes. The flow of the movie seems perfectly fluid and emotional along the way. The scene where all of the men climb out of the trench and charge all while being shot at by cannon fire brought me to tears as I could not imagine what it must have been like to actually have been there and this movie makes it seem incredibly life like. A stunning achievement that deserves every bit of praise.
This is a great film but I found it slightly silly that the main character didn't use his grenades (that were mentioned earlier in the plot) when he came into a situation where he obviously should have, and the pursuing Germans really were rubbish shots.
This film does a good job of keeping the viewer engaged the entire time. It highlights certain aspects of WW1 without doing a deep dive into the war or particular aspects of combat. The characters are interesting, you don't need a lot of dialogue or background to feel connected. The acting is good as well. This film was done as long shot, which keeps the pace moving. However, it makes the transitions awkward, as it is roughly 18 hours of time for the characters condensed into a 2 hour run on scene for the viewer. That awkwardness of characters flowing from one situation to the next too quickly, some war movie cliques, bad physics on the plane crash, and good, but not great combat scenes prevent this from reaching the levels of Dunkirk or Saving Private Ryan, but still very much worth your time.
I went in to watch this originally ONLY because of its award win. I did not think the trailer was anything special and.... WOW. What a TRULY amazing piece of film. Not movie. Film. I absolutely recommend this.
This movie represents the outmost of Sam Mendes and his screenplay and cameras. This movie shows artistic scenes when it comes to the war zone created and manipulated by the director.On the other hand I find the story of the journey and survival good but the concentration was targeted mainly to the directing content much more than the story line. Not saying that it was low but they could have achieved more in the field of compassion and battlefields.Generally it is a masterpiece for S.Mendes. Your eyes will be amazed by this artistic paints he had given.
Everywhere the camera didn't look, there could be a German soldier.
Just watched the new 1917 film, that tells the story of two British soldiers sought on a journey to deliver a message to their platoon that a trap has been laid out for them, where these young soldiers must warn them before it is too late causing 1600 soldiers to die if they cannot warn them in time.The film has a very basic premise, of the soldiers going through to the trenches to warn their fellow soldiers of a trap, but the cinematography is absolutely amazing. The continuous shot method works so much here, that I don't think the film would have been as good without it.A beautifully made film and most definitely will win awards for the cinematography alone, but as compelling as the story is, it was kind of lacklustre.This is after all a telling story of real life events and certainly was achieved that way, for it's unbelievable one shot sequences and the scenery of war life was really captivating.It just is a great piece of art.The only critic I have is that the characters should have had more development between each other; Both leading roles played by Dean-Charles Chapman ( Lance Corporal Blake) and George MacKay ( Lance Corporal Schofield) were great, but i definitely needed a little more inside story between both soldiers, even so with Blake's brother, but it left me on this journey with these men but not entirely caring for the characters all that much - for the simple facts I didn't feel the close bond as much as I perhaps could have.Again the continuous shot worked tremendously, I couldn't tell where the film had actually cut, and just made it for a mesmerizing experience.This will win awards at the Oscars for sure - don't think it will for screen play though or best film, but definitely for cinematography.Rating: 3.8/5 / 8/10
Sam Mendes has put together a compelling immersive film experience by a seemingly continuous moving camera record of two soldiers assigned the job of saving a battalion of 1,600 soldiers from a German entrapment and potential bloodbath. This is the second major film to provide its audience with a one streaming shot experience, the first being Alejandro G. Irritu's Birdman ( 2014). There is a lot to commend here in terms of cinematography reminiscent of some of the best war and survival movies from the best directors in the business, including: Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan (1998), a rescue mission set in World War II Germany and War Horse (2011), an animal story set in cruel trench warfare of World War I; Alejandro G. Irritu's The Revenant (2015) a period survival, revenge piece the wilderness; Ron Howard's The Missing (2003) a rugged and stark Western rescue story; Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down (2001) a contemporary military rescue effort in war-torn Somalia; Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now (1979) a horrifying, intense Vietnam War story; John Ford's, Henry Hathaway's, George Marshall's How The West Was Won (1962), an epic Western classic; John Sturges's The Great Escape (1963) an escape attempt from a notorious World War II prison camp; and even Mel Gibson's Apocalypto (2006), a story of survival in the perilous jungles of the declining Mayan empire. What is fascinating is the parallel to the breathtaking, pulsating science fiction thriller of Alfonso Cuarn's Gravity (2013) a survival story in outer space. The camera work, the music, the storyline of survival and loss are intense in both these movies. What minor flaws or manipulative script devices that occur in 1917, can be somewhat forgiven: the coincidences of the terrible circumstances and friendly soldiers that may be nearby, a mouse and tripwire, an obvious overlooked advantage the protagonist had in regards to a potential duel with a silhouette who becomes an enemy soldier. Mendes comes close to transforming this movie into but somehow avoids turning it into an extended virtual amusement thrill ride experience. Whether or not this war movie will join the ranks of Black Hawk Down or Kevin Costner's Dances with Wolves or Sam Mendes' own war movie Jar Head (2005), only time with time as the technology and cinematography continues to innovate to bring fresh and exciting visual and audio experiences to the audience.
1917 begins with a soldier under a tree, then he walks in a field where there are more and more soldiers, then he arrives in a trench full of soldiers, and the camera keeps on following him and his friend in their perillous mission. 1917 is shot in one real time shot (with some not too much visible cuts) like master Alfred Hitchcock did in "The Rope" in 1949 (there's another reference to Hitch with the plane sequence). As the two soldiers keep on running through different landscapes, the camera follow them closely in all positions, and some movements are really virtuoso (these movements also make me think of "Soy Cuba" and "The Cranes Are Flying"). So, the two soldiers have the dangerous mission to go deliver a letter to another position to stop an attack at dawn that is a trap to slaughter english troops. The two soldiers have to go fast and stay determined after a lot of nasty surprises. So there's no time for psychology (only one very touching sequence), just staying alive and keep on running to the objective. There are hundreds of details brilliantly directed by Sam Mendes and shot with genious by Roger Deakins. And in that bloody war, it's just a right vision of corpses with no gory sequences. Bravo !!!
20 minutes in the movie theatre, I wanted to leave. Anxious, claustrophobic, I felt trapped! I could not get it out! I knew they would make it. I had seen the trailer but it was nothing compared to what I was feeling. I was going to embark in a journey with two (unknown) actors, into the unknown!
1917 is a masterpiece! A breathtaking, riveting, beautiful film about a simple mission yet complicated during World War I.
I closed my eyes couples of times and yet I knew it was something to be seen. Sam Mendes' one shot directing is so immersive, I wanted to take the boys and bring them to 2020!
Everywhere the camera didn't look, there could have been a German soldier. What are you doing here? is what I asked myself over and over again which is why the end is so fitting and sweet and the resolution I needed. This was more important than the mission. Get out of this war! I know the end! Im from 2020 and I wanted to tell them, it's not worth it!
Then again in 2020 we almost had War World III !
I wanted to escape, the journey was long!
Then, the blazing fire kept me mesmerized with the beautiful score of Thomas Newman! I could not believe my eyes! How can something so destructive be so beautiful! Isn't ironic?
Then the climax, I kept screaming inside WHERE THE F%&#@ is Colonel Mackenzie! I couldn't wait any longer! 1917 exceeded all my expectations.
From the story of his grandfather to the end of the credits, Sam Mendes gave us the best movie of the year! Thank you Alfred Hubert Mendes!
I was confident this was going to be brilliant, and well... It was!Sam Mendes does it again with that famous. continuous shot make you feel you're really part of the story as it's unfolding.Cinematography is also very on point!Compelling, brilliant action, intense .. gripping, heart felt .. A lot to be said for our young war hero's from WW1 that we take modern day for granted.Go see!
This is one of the best war movies ever made. You follow along 2 soldiers on a mission to save 1600 fellow soldiers.
The musical score, the camera, the amazing actors, the sets all felt raw and powerfull to me.
In the end is a story of two young man following orders like other young men on the opposite side because someone decided so, they are all just doing there best to stay alive and have their mates backs. You follow their journey.
"1917" is perhaps the most ambitious film set during the Great War. Director Sam Mendes and director of photography Roger Deakins took a risk in presenting this film as one long take. There decision paid off in the most brilliant way. Deakins once again shows his mastery of light and lens. What he's done is he's crafted a visually stunning world without sacrificing story. There are multiple key moments that are told beautifully through the lens and mind of Deakins. A lesser cinematographer would have simply filmed the action on screen without taking into consideration the language of film through the visual medium. Nearly every frame in the film reveals something about the characters and the position they find themselves in. Dean-Charles Chapman and George MacKay deliver engaging and thrilling performances. MacKay commands the screen every moment he is on it. This is a film that feels both large and small simultaneously. The intimacy of the story of the two young men aiming to send a vital message to Colonel Mackenzie is entirely brilliant. At the same moment, the massive scope of what their failure or success will ultimately affect can be felt all the way through the film. At its core this film is a story of brotherhood and humanity. It's an absolute gem and is no doubt worthy of remembrance.
One of the profound movie making. Difficult to take off your eyes from the screen. Many seat edger plots. Roger has delivered his signature style of shooting a movie at his best. I could imagine Sam Mendes in the place of Hitchcock. The movies simple plot was just enough to show the diligence of two men in the front. Moreover, Great to see leading actors in the supporting roles. A message delivered with pain.
I haven't seen tension this good since Sicario's crossing the border scene. Most horror movies lack the tension this film punches.To be more specific, the movie gives payoff. Where most films middle about in the carrot-on-a-stick, promising things that never play out, 1917 actually delivers. You're never quite sure what will happen because the movie actually makes things happen.Furthermore, though you're rather sure the mission will be accomplished, you're not quite sure how. There's a genuine fear that they might not make it in time - something that isn't just a timetable issue like most films with a clock, but an actual fear.All in all, it was great. Well acted, fantastically shot, excellently paced, and masterfully told.
Must watch it. It's an experience. The cinematography, acting, plot, transitions. Everything was amazing.
Before watching i expected to give a 10 , However a 9 is enough
1917 starts with two soldier boys sitting by a tree, passing the little time they have before their division is once again called into action. From that moment, we follow them through a relatively short mission, but a very intense one. Mendes is a master here. He has a way to show the horrors of war that is different from other war films. Instead of relying on visually strong moments of death, instead of showing how evil human beings can be, and instead of requiring from his actors emotions of extreme fear, sadness and horror, he approaches all of it in a more realistic way. He relies on the small and more introspective feelings that our two protagonists feel during their journey, and requires from his actors only a portrayal of two innocent boys who have to go through hell in order to achieve something. By doing this, we see the horrors of war as being how that affects people in a deeper emotional level. We see all the apathy, regret, disappointment and frustration that they have to endure due to the realities of war. Death, however horrific it might be, is only one part of it, and what stays with those who survived is a set of feelings and memories that is much more frightening, and which we as viewers are invited to feel alongside our main characters. Mendes also has the sensibility to show every single character in the film as a human being, and by doing so, he expands the whole narrative of good vs evil that is usually portrayed in war films, to a more complex and realistic one, one of empathy vs apathy, power vs powerlessness, humanity vs humanity itself.
About the cinematography, one of the most broadly discussed aspects of this film is how Deakins films everything as if it was one shot. And it is indeed an amazing technical achievement, one which certainly adds to the feeling of absolute immersion. But Deakins does a lot more than that in this film. He is able to use these immersion techniques combined with beautifully lighted shots, sensible camera movement and, in a few key moments, an almost ethereal atmosphere (which is significantly brought up to another level by an amazing soundtrack). What he achieves with this is a mix of realism and poetry that adds an extra layer to the film, which would otherwise be remembered simply by its technical accomplishments.
One of the beat films i ever see in my life and it sad with thr right music and diractor and every thing
Best movie in 2019.
I always enjoy a good war movie & 1917 delivered! It was intense. It served the human factor & emotion well. Great acting, costumes & sets.
War movies are only made for the emotional part in recent years, then some directors gives us an original vision with a real different approache. After all the years watching movies that only repeating what we already seen i thought i'm done with it, i'm only looking for original ideas, finally i had one with Nolan "Dunkirk".... a rare one! Then Mendes did it again...... i almost lost breathing in the first 25 minutes, so intense none stop action without cut (at least i feel it that way), it gives you some break and..... here we go again, till the emotional and brilliant end. Nothing to say about acting and actors they are simply excellent ( especially Mackay ). 1917 is a most watch if you love cinema....
I've seen many a war movie, this by far is one of the best. I was really tired while watching this in the cinema, I had to keep pinching myself to wake me up. No way I wanted to miss a second of this masterpiece.
6/10 - stunning cinematography elevates a rather ordinary war story
Pretty great experience that is only bogged down by a few gripes. Some of the cuts they tried to hide were extremely obvious and a few events in the plot felt forced and the music was sometimes overbearing. But at the end of the day, this movie is a technical marvel. It's greatest achievement wasn't the cinematography for me, but how well I was immersed throughout the entire thing. I truly felt like I was in the movie, following the characters, which is something very important in a film like this. The entire film being "one shot" was a fun and unique gimmick that worked pretty well and allowed for a lot of intense sequences. Character development was pretty light, but the movie isn't trying to be too complex with its story, thus the characters were fine enough and developed enough to be likable.
The sets and depiction of trench warfare are intensely realistic but this story has been told many times before. Although the film shocks the viewer with its non-stop shots of WWI butchery it is much too long and the shock wears off just when it should climax. Although it is not a comedy by any measure I compared it to M*A*S*H for its depiction of the resignation of the soldiers and the uselessness and horror of war. It is not a reboot but the story sure seems common.
If you are going to this movie for action...do not go. It's literally dragged out over two hours. This is more of a behind the scenes of war kinda movie. It's mostly about the journey. It's kind of like the lord of the rings but...without all of the action. The action really wasn't thrilling. It was like..."oh ok..a bomb". Not a bad movie but could've been down way better.
Don't get me wrong its really good but extremely slow, when you see a hill far away you half to wait till he runs to the hill, if you see a house you half to wait till he runs to the house, if very ignoring however it makes it more real. Besides that and one small slow part 3/4 in the movie its very good, but don't expect much action.
1917 was very moving and intense. I liked the "one shot" way it was filmed. It showed the trenches of WWI and the difficulties therein very clearly. I saw scenes of things I had not seen before in a WWI movie.
Just got back from the movie theater. Thank you everyone, who helped me decided on which movie to see. 1917 the story of 2 British soldiers, during the WW1 are given an impossible mission . To deliver a message in enemy territory. This is a powerful movie. When the movie started it didn't waste no time in telling the story. Sam Mendes did a masterful job in this movie. The scenes were felt so close, like you were there with the 2 men. The cinematography was breathtaking. The depicts of war , was something to see. Beautifully done, The musical score was beautiful to listen to. The storyline was great. The telling of these 2 young soldiers and their journey into enemy territory was tremendous. The cast of characters was perfect. The 2 young stars of this film, did a tremendous job. They held this movie together. My opinion George MacKay, who played Lance Corporal Schofield. Should haven't gotten a nomination for acting. Well done! This is a beautiful, tremendous and wonderful piece of filmmaking. This deserves the Oscar nominations and right now it deserves best picture and best director. My rating is 9/10. Go see this movie. Again thank you all for helping me pick a movie. I will do it again, that was fun. #1917movie #ww1 #sammendes
Very Beautifully Made Peace Of Drama, The Scenes Are Very Well Dressed And The Actors Depict A Very Well Told Story However Some Scenes Do Drag Out A Lot For No Apparent Reasoning To The Stories Being Told. The Writing Is Super With Loads Of Thought Provoking Moments That For Many Leaves Them Wanting More, The Direction Is also Spot On And The Use Of Single Shot Is In My Opinion Perfectly Executed To Tell This Story.. Very Well Done
A mystifying experience, one that'll leave you yearning for just a little bit more of a lore set 103 years before our time. There's not much dialogue in the film yet the movie speaks a thousand languages, transcending through space and time reminding us of a time that was far from perfect yet still so perfect in so many ways. I seriously don't have words for this film so go out there and see it for yourself.One of a kind
10/10
Absolutely excellent. There are no words that can describe the emotions felt during the whole 2 hours. The first 30 mins or so alone deserves an academy award and it just gets better and more intense from there.Remarkable film making and a fitting tribute to the fallen.
Shot with one camera. Seems like one long take from beginning to end. The environment that they set for this movie is amazing. Another movie that seems like one take is Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance). Although that is not a war movie. I definitely recommend 1917.
This is one of those very rare occasions when after the movie is finished, I just sat in the theater and repeating "wooow!" over and over again. I went to see it twice so far. Just amazing!
This movie is flawless. I don't give out 10 out of 10 stars but this piece of art deserves it. Just simply fantastic! Every second on screen deserves full attention, you can't take a break from it and you don't want to.Probably the greatest film shooting and editing masterpieces ever made, even better than Birdman in my opinion, Roger Deakins get ready for that Oscar statue! Mr. Newman's music puts you in the mood with the story, fantastic script and acting from every major character and extras. Do yourself a favor: just go and see it on the big screen. You won't regret it!
Certainly worth your hard earned money. Filmed in a unique fashion.
A truly gripping first 45 mins but I thought it lost its way a little in the middle, recovered at the end. Wonderful heavy hitting cameos. Script could have been better.
The cinematography was outstanding and deserves all possible accolades in that department. Superb soundtrack reenforced the dramatic setting.
Since the movie is shot in "one take" and very close to the scenes, it seems that who is watching is right there with the actors. I really liked it!
The movie is not the masterpiece all are stating it to be..its a technical showcase nothing more..Its over hyped in the media a lotIts not a bad movie but not a masterpiece ala Saving Private Ryan
I've saw this one while I'm in Hawaii, in a broken beaten up theatre. And if I can still love a movie there then I don't know what else to say. This movie is brilliant, it's shot in a compelling and amazing way. The whole movie looks like it's one take. The whole time you can always feel tension. Like things are happening but you don't know what. Almost like a horror movie. The action is done brilliantly. My one singular complaint is that there isn't a lot of backstory behind Schofield. Still, an amazing movie and a must watch!
1917 does a number of things extraordinarily well and makes a smaller number of questionable choices.The thing that most stood out to me about this World War I piece was the beautiful choice Sam Mendes made in regard to cinematography. The entire film stretches out as if in one continuous shot. The camera follows Blake and Schofield, and later just Schofield, in their constant journey through the warzone and countryside. The camera is nearly always behind or to the side of the characters, creating a wonderful third-person perspective effect. The horror of war is very well conveyed through Roger Deakins's floating shots, with the viewer taking in the ambient environment alongside the soldiers.The plot structure was also a welcome surprise, which was intimately connected to the style of cinematography. 1917 takes place throughout one small period of time, from a little before dusk, through the night, and into the next day. The cinematography aides this progression in its unfaltering motion, as if the movement of the sun is also the movement of the characters. The goal was not to create an all-encompassing war film comprised of only the most gruesome and important moments, which many Hollywood films attempt to do; instead Mendes wove action sequences throughout more passive, environmental scenes. This created for me a more palatable and perhaps more realistic experience.The entire film was punctuated with very effective dialogue. I say punctuated because of the none of the dialogue was particularly crucial to the progress of the film. Because of the simple nature of the mission, Schofield didn't have to continuously rely on other characters to direct him and give him orders. The use of dialogue was used passively between Schofield and Blake and between anonymous members of another platoon. The lines functioned as a realistic device-most words shared between people are not important, they are just a tool to bind people together. In the cases of important dialogue between the main characters and military leadership, the lines were realistic and quick. There were no long, rousing speeches, which I thought was appropriate and a little refreshing.The realism of 1917 was thrown off a little by a few of the major plot moments. Blake and Schofield reach a small farm in the countryside and witness a plane dogfight in the distance, the loser of which crash lands nearly on top of them. The scene ends up conveniently killing off Blake, which was obviously the point of the encounter, but it seemed a little far-fetched for me. Later, Schofield encounters a lone soldier in a watchtower, which creates a sort of standoff. The scene ends with the first and only major cut of the film, Schofield and the soldier shooting one another. It seemed unlikely that a single German soldier would remain at that location, but I'm willing to give Mendes the benefit of the doubt. However, the result of the scene, Schofield passing out and losing time, seemed to be a plot device. These moments seemed lazy in comparison to the incredible amount of effort put into the rest of the film.1917 by director Sam Mendes had several questionable moments that failed to overshadow the brilliance of his filmmaking in this beautifully shot World War I piece.
Oxford defines 'Cinematography' as - 'the art of photography and camerawork in film-making'
-it will become far more clear when you watch this movie.Its a war epic depicted from the messenger point of view. A soldier whose only mission is to deliver message on-time to the other end.Its a SINGLE TAKE MOVIE, means scene is constantly going on and camera is just following along!Believe me when I say, that this movie is gripping in its storytelling. It has the raw feeling & harshness of war in its appearance.
It is a brilliant movie to start this new year, as its my first movie that I watched in 2020.
Go watch it and Enjoy!
Undoubtedly the best film of 2019. What a masterpiece. And I will go so far and say its the best war movie since "Saving Private Ryan" or AT LEAST in the Top 3 of the best ones those past 20 years.
Sam Mendes gave us a realistic impression of what it must have felt like for a soldier of that time in this traumatic environment. The atmosphere he creates is just calling. As an audience you feel like you would be in the middle of this battlefield. Absolutely authentic. It even gave me teary eyes at the end what I did not expect.
The acting is good as well. George MacKey perfectly handles this movie on his own shoulders and will shoot right to stardom with this film. His face constantly mirrored the horror of his surroundings, and this is just one attribute that made his performance so great. Another great performance that is mostly underrated was the one by Dean-Charles Chapman. What made him almost better but at least just as good as MacKay that he developed his character better and there is one particular scene in which he just perfect. (But so is MacKay). Generally you can see both actors are incredibly underrated for their performances - almost criminally. The most prominent cast members Colin Firth, Benedict Cumberbatch and Mark Strong had more of cameos but memorable ones to say the least. The score was fantastic and so versatile. Sam Mendes direction is flawless. The decision to make this film look like it was done in one take (or two takes) just adds to the realism. Kudos also to Roger Deakins for his great cinematography and Lee Smith for his editing, to make this effect as great as it turned out.
Its a winner piece. And a film that will be remembered for a long time.
Bad story great actors and very good scenes . Has to be more comprehensive story
Following a pair of young soldiers Blake and Schofield, attempting to carry out the impossibly tall order to deliver in person a message across no man's land, through trenches reportedly abandoned by the Germans, to save 1600 Allied soldiers from obliteration by falling into the trap of attacking enemy forces believed to be weak, but in fact reinforced by the withdrawal. Blake has a strong incentive to succeed, because his brother is a Lieutenant among the 1600. Schofield has the misfortune to be chosen by Blake, because he happens to be dozing alongside when he is summoned.The film has made the news with what is described as a "single camera shot" approach. This cannot really be the case for a two hour film covering a period of something nearer twelve hours. In fact, long shots have been skilfully joined to create a sense of continuity. The intended effect is to make one feel immersed in the experience: when Blake and Schofield force their way towards a crossing point through no man's land, pushing through a flow of men going the opposite way, the trenches feel like a dizzying maze. Similarly, the muddy struggle through a wilderness of water-filled bomb craters, the putrid carcases of horses and twisted human corpses feels done in "real time" giving the audience a virtual experience of this as close to "shellshock" as one can suffer at the cinema.Each of the scenes are portraying a different aspect of war: the aftermath of the downing of an enemy plane, the experience of being stuck in a lorry convoy which ought to be faster than going on foot but isn't, crossing a broken bridge under sniper fire, fleeing pursuers through a devastated city lit by fires like Armageddon and so on. Those who love films of dangerous action will enjoy this.Even when the horror is offset by something of beauty there is a sting in the tail: cherry blossom surviving on felled trees or floating on the river beside murdered villagers; a young woman in hiding caring for an orphaned baby whose name she does not know; a soldier singing a haunting spiritual for men many of whom will die later in the war, if not immediately should the message fail to reach the commander in time.The film captures a little the horrors of war and how it made many involved weary and wishing for it all to end.
We all know about the horrors of WW1, here's the best tribute to all who lost their lives.
A realistic portrait of one such heroic mission to stop the Devon Battalion from suffering a massacre at the hands of 1600 Germans.
Brilliantly acted by our two heroes bringing performances of
passion and daring treking across the wastelands of France.
The memories of a time where men became heroes will never be forgotten thanks to this masterpiece.
The year is, as you may have guessed, 1917. The war to end all wars(oh, if only it actually had been) has been going on for 3 years. The German forces seem to be on retreat. Unfortunately, like other times that appeared to be the case, it is in actuality a trap. Blake(Chapman, green) gets a signed order from the general to the regiment(as he has a brother in it) that are to pursue the enemy. before he was given that briefing, back when he thought it would be something simple like to go gather some food, he was asked to choose someone to go with him. He picked his friend Schofield(MacKay, more experienced, and as a direct result, more reserved). It seems impossible but they have to try.Their journey shows a huge amount of the countless legitimately terrifying and disgusting realities of WWI. You'll see many corpses. It was rare to bury your dead. Some are being slowly eaten by rats. Others are bloated. We as moviegoers can almost smell their stench. While I have an extremely high tolerance for violence and gore, I do acknowledge that there is a certain line. If you cross that, if you show more graphic material than you "should", the audience becomes desensitised. It no longer packs a punch. This movie does an incredible job of getting right up to the limit, going as far as it can, without going overboard. I agree with those that say this isn't really an entry in the action genre. I'd classify it as a horror-thriller. Within 15 minutes, our duo have crossed into what they just been explicitly told, technically is still enemy territory. No man's land. The focus is not really on battles so much as tension and suspense. Any moment they could encounter someone one who's stayed behind specifically to stop them, to prevent their victory.This is presented as a one taker, with the few actual cuts, perhaps not entirely successfully, hidden. I found it to be incredibly immersive. Your mileage may vary. It does come with weaknesses, such as dialogue scenes that would have benefited from traditional editing, and are instead bland. And limitations, which I can't discuss since I am not getting into spoilers. Some criticize the low characterization and plot. I agree with them on its presence, not about it being a considerable negative. This is instead about the more general experience of participating in World War I, and keeping to a faster pace and smoother flow. What we see in this is essentially a microcosm. To understand the scope we do have to ourselves multiply it by millions. Far more effective than throwing the real(legitimately overwhelming) numbers at us. No, it's not the exact experience of everyone, that's not what they wanted to go for. The camaraderie rings true. Here's hoping this picture(and it's positive reception, when it comes to critics, general audiences, and awards) will inspire a third adaptation of All Quiet on the Western Front. The two that are already out are both excellent, covering different aspects really well. And another one could go into new things that those don't, from the book.In addition to what I've already mentioned, this contains some strong language. I recommend this to anyone that has the stomach for it. 9/10
For the first five minutes the intimate camera was slightly discombobulating and I felt uncomfortable.And then I felt like I was walking by their sides and slightly after that I started crying and didn't really stop until the end of the creditsThe fact that my stone hearted partner was also sobbing is a testament to the overwhelming emotional punch of 1917.A minimalist script and storyline combine with completely immersive cinematography and soundtrack to create a film you will not easily forget.The detail and love in this film is apparent - It minimises the use of CGI, uses actors who have faces out of old old photos and you can almost hear Grandpa Mendez telling his stories.Thank you Sam Mendes
Yes , I'm quite an old fart . Old enough to still vividly remember year 1970 , when my grandfather told me a chilling story from WWI . In 1914 he was enlisted in Austro Hungarian forces , his cousin also . I still have original , framed , enlarged photo of that cousin in uniform , taken in early 1915 .
Anyway , I remember painful , sad expression on my grandfathers face , when he told me how his cousin died right beside him in a trench of Russian front
in 1917 . He was shot by a sniper . My grandfather wrote an exact date of his cousins enlisting and death on backside of that photo . . He also told me how horrible the soldiers
suffered in those trenches . It actually pains me while I'm writing this , and I can feel the soldiers pains when I read E.M. Remarques "All Quiet On Western Front" .
And this movie , while not bad at all , IMHO , fails to expose the true dread and emotions that this book , my grandfathers stories and other , much better war movies do .
While watching this movie I was on the edge of my seat, I had goosebumps, I was speechless about the hauntingly beautiful cinematography!
What Roger Deakins was able to pull off was incredible and there is no doubt that he is best in the business. My eyes were wide open and I was just amazed at how beautiful the cinematography was in coust.
The soundtrack was subtle but amazing and picked up when needed too putting the audience on the edge of their seats.
This is the first movie by Sam Mendes I have watched and will be definitely be checking out more of his movies. He did an amazing job of making the movie without any cuts it really helped you to experience the events of the movie and makes you feel the panic, tragedy and the adrenaline rush along with the characters.
This movie checked all the boxes in my list and is one of my favourite movie all time!
A must watch for all.
It's nice movie to watch, however! I think that the story is very simple and the most immersive things in the movie are the editing, lighting, custom, etc. rather than acting level! Actors performance were very normal and nothing was high level! Marriage Story is way better in my opinion
1917 is another in the Deakins film bio that will Garner the Oscar for best cinematography, since the dialogue didn't tell the story but the cinematography did. It had to for this insurmountable task to ever come off on screen the film had to tell this story. The one shot illusion was a marvel in how to advance this technique called film making. I love the idea of using ground breaking tech to further the art of film making. This move is incredible, well directed and the cast was incredible. The lead in this film has every right to be a nominee!
1917 was brought to us by Sam Mendes and tells the story of two British soldiers during World War I who are sent off on a mission to stop an attack by the Germans on another base.War movies seeemed to have had a significant impact on cinema over the last few years with movies like Hacksaw RIdge and Dunkirk. 1917 continues this trend by giving us a unique, breathtaking and riveting experience. As a matter of fact, I consider this to be a masterpiece. The techniques used to tell this story work brilliantly to deliver intensity, excitement, discomfort and a sense of atmosphere.If you've heard of this movie already, odds are that you've heard that it's shot with the illusion that it's entirely one-shot. This fact turns out to be entirely true. There are no montages, no random cuts or anything like that, save for one cut at around the halfway mark. I think that what makes it work so well is that this technique makes the journey that these 2 soldiers go through feel like it's being done in real time. It helped the movie feel more engaging and interesting as it showcases everything that the soldiers go through in order to accomplish their goal.As a war film, it is rather brutal in many instances. There are many scenes and aspects that point to this being true such as the fact that there are dead bodies everywhere, there's a plane that looks like it's about to crash, and that's just from the trailers. I also really appreciate how the dialogue is very minimal. It's trying to be a story that relies mostly on its visuals, and considering its visual style, I think it really works.It mostly comes to the film's visual style working so well to tell this story about these brave soldiers hoping to stop an attack from the Germans. All I can really tell you guys is to go see this movie if you want a very real look on war! This movie is a masterpiece in my eyes.10/10
This time to my review this movie, i had wath this movie this morning, and make me happy
Just got back from seeing this. Absolutely loved it! One of the best movies I've seen in the past decade.My friend didn't rate it as high as I did (so it may not be for you) but I thought the whole thing was amazing. It is beautifully shot (settings, lighting, color). The one camera, no-cut technique worked perfectly with this story (unlike, IMO, the strange timeline overlay of Dunkirk). And it has many emotional surprises along the way.Highly recommended.
What can I say this movie is amazing on so many levels. Id advice watching it on the big screen, as I'm not sure if you will get the same experience at home on the TV.You really feel like you're there in the trenches, from the atmosphere the visuals and the realistic dialect.I will be seeing this a second time as I'm sure there is plenty of detail, I missed the first time.
Holy Moly what a movie. Really great, even if war movies aren't your cup of tea. The camera work is just incredible and the atmosphere they build make you forget your popcorn.
The first film I've seen in cinemas this year/decade, and what a way to start. Whilst the story is fine and decent, but not much more, the rest of the film is outstanding. Obviously, the cinematography by Roger Deakins is the highlight, especially at nighttime, where the town of Ecoust being lit by fire and flares being amazing. Definitely a contender for best cinematography (even though The Lighthouse will give it some good competition). As for the 'one continuous long shot', I knew there were bits where they cut, but there wasn't anything glaringly obvious. But it doesn't matter too much, the camera work is phenomenal.George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman give extremely committed and natural performances, and they act incredibly given how the film is being shot and the fact they're in World War 1. The musical score was good enough, if not excellent, and I love some of the small moments of the two soldiers trying to relieve stress and pressure by just joking around.This is a film everyone should see. Yes, over 70% of the film is people walking or running, with bits of tense yet well-crafted action placed in between, but that doesn't stop this film being excellent. A strong contender for Best Picture, bolstered by natural performances, great direction, realism, and of course, outstanding cinematography. See it. You won't regret it.
I am stunned. This is the best bit of cinematography I have ever seen. The entire movie filmed in a single shot!! Amazing!The story is not particularly new: two men sent to stop a charge into a trap, running into obstacles and situations. "Gallipoli" comes to mind at once. But the urgent message took up only a few minutes of "Gallipoli"; here virtually the entire movie carries that sense of urgency... in a single take!I am not sure whether "1917" is the best movie of the year, but it certainly makes a case. Without doubt it makes a strong case for best director and best everything-to-do-with-making-a-bloody-movie-award. Yeah, I highly recommend it.
Sad sad sad war, war bring nothing but misery to humanity. We don't even know if our ancestor died honorably or just died for nothing. To fulfill our leader's pride who just sit on the throne watching us sacrifice our life while he/she eating kentucky. Sam Mendes did a great job depicting the horror of war, we should be afraid of war more than ghost. Because ghost cant do nothing but war do everything. War is not even stop until today, massacre keep happening here and there until we think that human's life is worthless. Just for the sake of thing called oil and money. Everyone must die. Can peace still happen? Or it is just fata morgana?
While there have been movies filmed to look like they're one long take (the Best Picture winner, Birdman (2015) comes to mind) and movies that revolve around key moments of retreat during war (Dunkirk (2017) comes to mind), never before have the two been so masterfully combined. 1917 (2019) is a rare piece of cinema that tackles the less-popular World War I as its subject matter, but doing so in a way that's personal, gruesome, and tense. Those viewers who might be put off by the gore of this film might come to realize that cinema has been censoring the ugly side of war for far too long.None of the violence seems out of place in 1917. Its moments of horror highlight the ugliness of war that results in constant and ever-present death. Fortunately, there are enough moments of peace and rebuttal between these intense sequences to let the audience catch their breath. Because, after all, the one-shot style of this film is breathtaking all on its own. The ability to pull something like this off, with brilliant peaceful bookends encapsulating intense action, makes 1917 a generation-defining movie that will likely remain as a landmark of cinema for years to come, regardless of the awards it does or does not win.Sam Mendes' career is just as varied as that of his contemporaries (Christopher Nolan comes to mind). After winning Best Picture with his breakout film, American Beauty (1999), Mendes has dabbled in almost every genre, including comedy (Away We Go (2009)), period drama (Road to Perdition (2002)), and franchise success (Skyfall (2012)). It's a testament to his skills as a director to show how far he has come in 20 years. Sure, American Beauty was good for its time, but I think 1917 is excellent beyond any annual awards cycle. It could be the kind of film you only see once in 202 years.A generation-defining film that pulls no punches, I give 1917 5.0 stars out of 5.
I'm going to say this right off the top, this is my 4th favorite war film of all time behind Saving Private Ryan, Full Metal Jacket, and Black Hawk Down. With that aside, this film is spectacularly beautiful and pristine all in thanks to one man. Mr. Roger Deakins. I've followed this man's career from his early days with the Coen brothers, to his amazing camera work in How to Train Your Dragon, to now this. And to me by far it is his best work. It kept me glued to the film as I loved watching the colors and camera work by Deakins, and he made this film sing like a opera choir. However, Deakins isn't the only major contributor, Sam Mendes makes what seems to be a rather personal story to him considering his paternal grandfather told him this story. This is his best work, even better than American Beauty. It's not filled with mindless explosions, or unnecessary violence and blood just for the sake of it. Every scene, every shot was seemingly carefully crafted with masterful direction. There were some twists I didn't see coming, with a sprinkle of some suspense and tragedy, while displaying the true brutalities of war. This film has been nominated for many of the major awards including the Oscars, Golden Globes, and others, and rightfully so. Like I said earlier if you are looking for a bloody, violent, and explosions then this is not for you. For anyone else, please check this out, it's worth the money.
One word "emotion." I think this movie is so amazing beyond its technical achievement because it manages to ignite real feelings for the characters and the events not only in a one level sense of suspense and action but mostly in terms of the human beings and the tragedy that is war. There really is much to say here but one thing I was very disappointed about was its marketing techniques... I understand this made a lot of money and the way they promoted it was obviously of help, but as a filmgoer It really sucks to have the climax of the movie and probably what would be the most exciting moment of the film in the Trailer, really took a lot from that moment.
What a powerful film! This movie is so well done... you really feel like you are there with the characters as they go out on their journey.. not sure if they will make it. Every level of the film is just masterful. Actors were all great.. but the way the story was told it's just so powerful. Looks simple.. but so much work must have gone in to pull that all off. Just flows so well and you are in the story from the beginning to the end.I'd vote for it for Best Picture for sure! So well done... congrats!
1917 has shown audiences what really made those men go over the top! It is all centred as one shot, and the director with such an inquiring mind really has made a cinematic masterpiece! 1917 will be remembered as one of the most, in the top three, best war movies ever made, with the protagonist Schofield losing his friend and ally, to reaching to his brother, in a certain amount of time under complete heavy fire.Surprisingly, Richard Madden is the brother, and its worth a wait for him to show up. Also, Benedict Cumberbatch nails his leadership skills with a two-minute one shot scene. These ambitious and incredible actors are able to pull off such talent with the little time they have left on screen. But with George MacKay running to send a message, IS the soldier in this one cinematic adventure adventure! There's hardly any fighting, which allows you to concentrate on MacKay (Schofield's) plan... and his plan works!The film is indescribably well-created, the beginning at a tree-to the ending to a tree. It's pure Oscar buzz, and the pressure engages the audience from the first tree to the last.Every trench, field, and house scene is pure cinema gold. It's absolute gold! With Schofield escaping every minute and time running out, you're money would've been worth spending.1917 is a masterpiece; Oscar material, a future classic, and the 2000s Saving Private Ryan.10/10
A stunning beautiful (if you can call it that) film from start to finish. An impending sense of dread that not even Dunkirk managed. The sound, visuals and acting all perfect.
1917 with its realistic landscape and live action depicted the horror of trench warfare more dramatically than any previous film of the same genre that I have seen. There were number of bad mistakes such how did the letters and photos in Corporal Scofield pocket survive to become readable after he was washed down a river in full flow. These and others, however, did not detract from a very human story which apparently was based true events experience by Sam Mended grandfather.
All young people of our generation should see this film to appreciate what soldiers endured in that unnecessary and fruitless war. My admiration goes to the camera crews who took many sequences in single shots following the soldiers through the trenches. A truly epic film which I would gladly see again. I recommend seeing in a wide screen format to appreciate the scale of the landscape
A move from WW1. That is a wonder!! The "one shot" deal was brilliantly completed. This move is a jewel and will go down in history as a one of the best in cinematography ever made (together with Ben Hur 1959, Star Wars 1977 and others).The story...straight and simple. But...the actors and director makes you feel the battle, the tension, the fear, the desperation.Extremely watchable.
Yes, it's a war movie... but not really. It's more about a corporal's determination to accomplish his given orders; and that he does through thick and thin !Excellent cinematography, superb directing, good acting, believable scenery, and so much more.It's a very good film worthy of the 10 Oscar nominations... I shall predict 1917 will win for Directing, and possibly some other categories too - but not for Best Picture!
It is incredibly amazing how 1917 takes you on a journey by just following the two main characters on their objective in one take. 1917 is a must-see. It is a painful realistic and emotional movie, Sam Mendes and Roger Deakins did it again. Hands down.
Revolutionary Directing from Sam Mendes, Unbelievable Cinematography from Roger Deakins, and Mesmerizing Score from Thomas Newman, Defintly One of the greatest war movies of all time and one of the best films of The Year, i highly recommend watching it in IMAX.
A cinematic ingenious masterpiece. I was skeptical with the "one shot" take when I first heard/started watching the movie but I've never seen it done so well. It was a somewhat 3rd person pov that really brought the audience there with them not missing anything...literally.The people who are scoring this movie because "there isn't enough action or the plot was boring" clearly didn't know what WW1 was like. Movie wasn't based on any battle, it's clearly about the prevention of one. Dunkirk, without context would be the most boring war modern film created but I also enjoyed such film because of the story.If you're into the corny cliche war movies, watch Saving Private Ryan where the "good guy" shoots the "bad guys", and saves the "damsel in distress" & wins.--Simple plot for simple people.
From the moment the film opened until its closing shot, 1917 had me on the edge of my seat. A slow build up of tension and emotion all releasing in a dramatic and explosive climax made this film one of the best war movies I have ever seen. While not as action-packed like its predecessors, 1917 still managed to both get my blood pumping and my tears rolling. An incredible film, and an instant classic for me.
Hey all you numn**ts, this was not supposed to be a run of the mill action war movie. If thats what you were looking for, then rent Saving Private Ryan. Was it the best movie I have ever seen? No. Does it deserve Best picture? I don't think so, But different stokes, for different folks. I liked it. All of you who say it was boring, I guess there were not enough scenes with people getting their heads blown off .I liked the camera work and the natural progression of the story. Will I watch it again? Maybe, maybe not. I got an idea, for your next movie watch Sorority House Massacre
It is rated 18! Besides the swear word, there isn't much to the expose. The cinematography wins all by hand down. CGI usually infested in futuristic non-fictional movies.. But this is an old time war movie. Given to the facts that the wars zone was not too complicated, the bomb craters and casualties are pretty much "standard" so it is really up to how good the stage composition and the 2nd unit director could beef up the jobs to the best possible, and they done it very well. Movie score by Thomas Newman is another superb element in the film. The score rallies so well in pace with the movie mood and the score is the connecting dots that keep my focus throughout the entire movie.
1917 is definitely a masterpiece. I was sitting in the theater at the end of the movie like wow I just saw the greatest movie ever made. I am usually not speechless, but I am it was fantastic.
This film recently got nominated for best picture at the Oscars, so I had to see what all the fuss was about and I have now seen 1917 and this is my review of the film.
Main Character
This film actually has two lead characters, relative unknowns George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman and after this film I am sure I will see more performances from them in the future. They are both fantastic in this film and have really good chemistry together, they give very physical performances and you really do care about them as they go on this daring mission. Mackay in particular stands out and gives a memorable performance that was highly impressive.
Supporting Characters
Now this is a hard category for this film as the film truly focuses on these two actors and nobody else, don't get me wrong seeing Mark Strong, Benedict Cumberbatch and Andrew Scott in entertaining but small roles provides this film with legitimacy and star power. But as mentioned I have to be fair and say this film maybe doesn't do enough with it's supporting characters to make you care about them.
Story
The story is pretty engrossing, the journey that these two people go on is very tense and emotional, you support them all the way and you want to see them succeed. It isn't the most unique story but it makes up for it in how intense it is and how it make you feel a part of their journey and how you are the third man in the group supporting them all the way.Script
The script is very good, obviously the film is very serious and it nails its dramatic dialogue to encapsulate just how dark the situation they are in, though, when used the humour feels appropriate and well placed for a pair of friends travelling together.Style
Now we get onto the star of the film and that is cinematographer Roger Deakins, this is possibly the best looking movie I have ever seen. The film is shot in one continous shot and it feels perfect for this film and allows you to get immersed in this WW1 setting and you feel like you are with the characters. The musical score adds to the drama of the situation and I cannot stress how tense this film is and how it keeps you on the edge of your seat.
Overall
This is a fantastic film experience, one of the best war based film in recent memory. Any big film fan needs to see this film mainly for its style and how beautiful it is to watch.
I found it an extremely well made film. A shame the plot was Cliched What are the chances of the plane crash landing so close to them? Of all the bombed out houses he found the one with a women and a baby! Also the number of times he was shot at but survived. Especially at the end running across the top of the trenches!
Still as said a well made film.
Enjoyed a lot more than I thought I would. Will see again in the cinema. Gave me everything I was hoping from Dunkirk but didn't quite get, even though I did like Dunkirk. Loved the cinematography, feels like you're there too on the journey. Good luck at The Oscars, hope this movie rakes in the awards.
The book (The Bad Canadian) was better. Deserves a wider audience.
1917 is a truly riveting war movie about a messenger who has to brave through enemy lines to deliver a message. The plot sounds boring, but being a war movie, you can expect a lot of action. The choice for long shot was good because the audience is there with the character and fully sees the world from the protagonist's point of view. This limits the visual scope and creates suspense. There are indeed many suspenseful moments. Sam Mendes brilliantly captures the grimness and unpredictability of war amidst plush scenery. Though our character is sent to prevent a rash attack by British soldiers, through the journey we can feel the exhaustion and just want our hero to escape alive and forget about the mission. The performances were great, needless to say. These are men in battle at the spur of the moment, and the time span is practically the runtime, so there is no time for detailed character exposition or development. What is seen is what you would see from a real person. Of course you may note that all British characters are decent people, even in face of death. So there is some idealization of World War 1 British soldiers. Interestingly, German soldiers are portrayed as people out there to fight, and they are human too. One even has a name. 1917 is a gruelling war adventure movie that balances action, spectacle, and drama. A definite must watch for all
1917 is a beautiful film set amidst both brutal and picturesque natural environments. The cinematography is some of the best ive ever seen. The score was equally brilliant and the acting was flawless. One of the best war films of the last decade.
Capturing a full length feature in one continuous shot is a rare artistic technique utilised by filmmakers, with very few films in existence eligible to boast such a technical accomplishment. For his epic World War I film, Sam Mendes (director of Skyfall) and cinematographer Rodger Deakins employed long takes and swooping camera shots in order to project the illusion of a single continuous shot. While it's not a cinematic technique serviceable for every feature film, it most certainly compliments a project with the scale of 1917. On April 2nd, 1917, two soldiers, Schofield (MacKay) and Blake (Chapman), are instructed to deliver a message to the 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment that will subsequently terminate an attack that would result in the deaths of 1,600 men. In an ultimate race against time, Schofield and Blake courageously venture behind enemy lines to accomplish their mission, encountering many perilous obstacles along the way.
1917 is a staggering accomplishment. Utilizing the one continuous shot illusion, Mendes and Deakin's craft an epic, mesmerising journey into the heart of war, carried by an outstanding central performance by MacKay. Deakin's cinematography is fantastic and utterly immersive, complimented tremendously by Thomas Newman's brilliant score. It's a continuously riveting descent into treacherous territory. Factoring in the gritty authenticity of the set design captured by the one shot illusion, much of 1917 feels almost documentary-esque in it's sense of realism. Up there with Saving Private Ryan (1998) and Dunkirk (2017), 1917 is a must-see war effort that is breath-taking in scope and emotionally exhausting in its resolution.
A enjoyable WW1 story set in the trenches and no mans land.
Visually the film looks great with a lot of detail going into making the scenes look authentic and realistic. The camera work is impressive through these settings.
Although set in the trenches,I wouldn't say this is a high intensity action film. There are periods of action, but not as intense as I've seen in other war films.
It does have a dejavu of Saving Private Ryan... but this doesn't detract from what is an excellent film.
This film certainly opened with an awful lot of fanfare, and a part of me was intrigued because I do quite like World War I movies. However, for some reason I really couldn't get into this film all that much, but that didn't necessarily mean that I didn't like it, by no means, it just didn't grab me in the same way as some other World War I films have grabbed me.The story is about two young men who are given a mission to cross over enemy lines and to prevent an attack on the Germans that will no doubt meet with failure. This is a little odd though because there were an awful lot of such attacks during the war. In fact, the Colonel at the end of this film does make mention that while this attack has been called off, no doubt sometime in the not too distant future there will be another order which will result in the same number of casualities.The interesting thing about this film is that it appears to have been filmed in one continuous shot. Mind you, it hasn't, it is just that the film has been edited together to make it seem to be the case, though of course doing it in such a way is going to make filming it very difficult indeed, especially when the shots that are being taken take about ten odd minutes each. However, there were a couple of scenes, such as the one in the river, that certainly wouldn't be able to be done if the entire movie was made in one shot (namely because we would have to account for errors and all that).This aspect of the film certainly does give it quite an edge though, and while it took me a little while to work it out, it certainly does have the ability to draw you in, and especially holds you glued to the screen all the way through. The suggestion is that this way it ratchets up the tension, and in a way that certainly works. Further, it doesn't give you enough time to sit back and breathe.While, as I mentioned, that it isn't one of my favourite movies, it still is well worth seeing.
This film is incredible, the way it is shot allows you to become easily and fully immersed, it's such a simple story line but of course as you would expect in war it isn't easy. I love that it is mostly just based around the two characters who then meet a few others along their mission. I really don't want to ruin it for others but honestly I highly recommend you watch it, it's just pure brilliant and has some big names for the higher ranks.
The way it was filmed with no cuts creates the raw emotion in the film grasping the viewer with the entire weight of the situation. The one take camera view is what made this movie. It was sort of slow for a war movie but the scenes with action definitely get your blood pressure and anxiety up. With no cuts in most of the scenes though you grasp the raw emotion of fear and uncertainty that most young soldiers would've had. If you're a violence junky then this movie isn't for you. But if you'd like to see some truly beautiful cinematography and gripping emotion, it's incredible. Definitely up there with saving private Ryan as I use that movie as a staple for all war movies. Saving private Ryan is definitely more realistic with violence and pure chaos but doesn't quite capture the emotion that 1917 produces.
This film is shown in the bestest format ever seen; a one continuous shooting. Sam Mendes ("Skyfall", winner for Best Director at the 2020 Golden Globes) made a great two-hour story about two officers in the British army tasked with a very important mission which could save over 1,600 men. I saw the film this Tuesday (14 Jan) and was crying on the inside. My thoughts and prayers are with Mendes' late grandfather LC Alfred H. Mendes; I salute you, sir!
Let's take a look behind the scenes of a bloody disaster on all fronts. Pacifists be damned these Germans were up to no good and needed a good hard spanking. Ooo la la. NO.Now he's my take. My grandfather and my grandfather fought and died in WWI and II. End of story stay out of our business.
1917 (4 out of 5 stars).1917 is one of a king epic war film which puts you right with the characters Will (George MacKay) and Tom (Dean-Charles Chapman) as they travel through the battlefield. Director Sam Mendes is trying to achieve something with his direction, long camera shot continuation, and a wonderful music score by Thomas Newman. The film does well in capturing the realism and raw tone of war. The silence in walking through a mineshaft. The enemy firing at you and hearing the bullet ricocheting. Or an enemy charging at you. The audience is put right next to these soldiers as they cross enemy territory.The plot follows Will and Tom as they are assigned by their captain to cross no mans land and to warn the other battalion that they are about to fall into a trap from their enemy. It is a race against time that they will have to walk a far distance in less than a day. While watching out and avoiding their enemy.Director Sam Mendes does well in capturing a still camera shot. Mendes does not over do it like other action film directors with adding a lot of unnecessary action or explosions. He does capture the realism and raw tone of the movie. I like that he is trying to break the ground barrier with a one long continuation shot with the camera. Sure, there may be a scene cut somewhere. The editors did a great job in keeping the camera shots and direction very coherent without breaking away from a scene. It is kind of distracting. It works great with the movie. The opening scene following Will and Tom from their captain being told their assignment. To walking through the trenches around the soldiers. The cinematography by Roger Deakins did a great job in following these characters. And capturing the production set with torn down villages. Or a gritty aftermath of the battlefield with corpses on barb wires. It is just impressive. Lee Smith editing was well done in keeping the one long shot focused.The music score by Thomas Newman was beautifully done and haunting in a way. George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman were also good with their characters. We learn a little about them as they talk about their history as they walk through no mans land. Plus there are other actors in here with a small appearance like Mark Strong, Andrew Scott, Colin Firth, Claire Duburcq, Richard Madden, and Benedict Cumberbatch.My one issue with the film which I dislike about it is the pacing. It is nice to see a one shot sequence with the cinematography following the characters without cutting scene to another. Basically, you're with the characters every foot step they make. Which is cool and all but it does get a little slow when they walking a long way in a field or come to a complete pause.Overall, 1917 is a good war film done by Sam Mendes and his sharp beautiful direction. With a good music composer, editor, cinematography, and cast. It is one film that is worth seeing on the big screen.
Words can't describe the sheer brilliance of this film. The plot, the direction, the acting, the cinematography, the music, the set and costume design and the technical and visual feat of it appearing all as a one shot film that takes you along on the journey with the two main characters.Sam Mendez and DP Roger Deakins are true masters of the art and have really helped reignite my passion for filmmaking. I have viewed this film twice in the past week in the cinema, and can't recommend it more.The film really portrays the sheer amount of devastation, pain and sorrow of World War 1. The attention to detail in every frame is staggering, from harrowing views of the deceased to the huge film sets that really immerse you in the story, taking you on a journey with the film's two main protagonists.I don't want to give too much away, but all I can say is that it left me with a tear in my eye both times at the end and I have never seen a cinema so packed, yet so quiet at the end of a film before, when the final slate fades on at the end.A truly cinematic masterpiece.A must see film for anyone who wants to see what it was truly like to experience the horrors of World War 1.
1917
9.03 out of 10-
-Plot/Screenplay: 8.3
-Premise/concept: 8.3
-Edit/Pace: 7
-Characters: 8.6
-Dialogue: 9.3-Performace/Direction: 10
-Casting: 9
-Cinematography: 9.8
-Sound/Music: 8.6
-Art/Digital: 9.8
A film that takes risks, not only in the presentation but also in the story of it. A well-performed war drama which has a unique one-shot style.It's always nice to see a film as refreshing as this one. It reminded me of Birdman in the way it looked. Amazingly, they used this filmmaking style for a war film.The use of World War 1 as the stage is another breath of fresh air, I feel like we don't see that as often as we should.Roger Deakins is the star of the show here and only confirms, yet again, that he is Hollywood's most talented cinematographer. The film's shot and art direction is perfect and will be a shoo-in for a lot of awards, no doubt.Sam Mendes is a very talented director and this is one of the best war movies in recent memory. A breathtaking experience!I won't give this film a 10/10 because the characters aren't entirely compelling. They provide emotional weight but not an incredible amount of it. A small nitpick for sure, but enough to say that it is not "perfect" film.
This movie is just gorgeous. It's now certain Sam Mendes KNOWS how to do a war movie. And this movie has such beauty in its disgustingness. I only had two-ish problems with the movie but I'll save those for last. I think where this movie really succeeds is the set pieces. There are so many layers you can find. Like for instance a dead dog in the barn scene or just bodies scattered about. Work was put into this movie to make it believable. And if I haven't already mentioned, while gory this movies shots are breathtaking. When Will is in front of the burning building my jaw dropped it was so beautiful. Kudos to the cinematography. Also just saying score and story are great but you would have to watch it for yourself. Also this movie IS a war movie. People die there are no winners or losers. Spoiler: one of the main characters dies halfway through I want to say which shows Sammy boy isn't scared to show the reality of war. Anyways what didn't I like. For one the plot loses me at times I don't want to go too far into this issue because it isn't annoying as it may seem but the main goal is just lost for me. I dunno it felt like Will couldn't succeed but then he runs into the battalion? That's supposed to be like miles away?!?! Not that big of an issue. Also, the movie is one continuous shot (excluding the hidden cuts) however, three quarters through the movie
there is a cut.
(Its when will gets "shot" and wakes back up) made me mad but I still enjoyed the movie a mastapiece if I will.
This movie works on so many technical levels that it's a must see in theaters. This is the reason you go to the movies. I'm a sucker for the one-shot format and this movie is excellent at it.I do think this movie works because of the directing and cinematography. If the directing, cinematography, and one shot wouldn't have been there, I don't think this movie would even be talked about this year.The story is on the lighter side because it's about delivering a message. We've seen this before. The film comes alive with these master filmmakers doing what they do best!The only thing weird about this movie is when the soldier stumbled upon the mom and her baby. That entire scene seemed a little weird to me. It didn't seem to fit the movie for me.The Oscar slate is stacked this year but if you see any movie in theaters this Oscar season, this is the one to see.
I was worried that the way the movie was shot would be boring. I was skeptical if the movie could keep my attention because everything happens in real time. When the characters are walking from one point to another, we watch every step they take and there are no cuts to pass time. This movie had my attention the entire time, even during the scenes where they are just walking, there was always something going on. There is so much much going on in the background in some scene that I caught myself watching some of the extras and what they were doing. The biggest thing I liked about this movie was the cinematography. There were many scenes where I was blown away with how beautiful the shot was. This is an amazing movie and for me, it is up there with Dunkirk as one of my favorite war movies.
I love drama movies and particularly dramas taking place in history or war, so this movie was number one in my to do list. The fact that is was filmed in just "one shot" is emotionally engaging from the very beginning. You feel you can't turn your head or even blink 'cause you'll be missing a precious moment of the movie. I cried trying to imagine how many stories like this have got lost in time, how many people have suffered the injustice of war.
Best scene: Schofield getting out of the trench, bombs reaching ground and exploding, soldiers dying and still, he doesn't lose focus to deliver his message 
Sam Mendes crafts a spectacularly unique war film unlike any other that refuses to relish in its combat and violence, but instead, tells its audience an emotionally captivating story through its depiction of the gritty and raw nature of unforgiving war. Legendary cinematographer Roger Deakins works to capture every visceral frame of the film and works with Thomas Newman as he constructs a potent orchestral soundtrack that perfectly underscores every moment throughout the two hour runtime. Not a single performer on screen pulls any of their punches as everyone delivers Mendes' tight script with a pure focus that sells every scene. "1917" is an astonishing achievement in filmmaking on all fronts that will undoubtedly be recognized and studied for years to come.The story of "1917" is one of fiction that is derived from the real world stories of the world's Great War. We start by getting introduced to our central protagonists, Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Lance Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) as they are handpicked by General Erinmore (Colin Firth) for a mission of the utmost importance. The mission requires that both soldiers make their way to the 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment and relay a message to call off the assault on the supposed "retreating" German forces within the next twenty-four hours; if they fail, the battalion will be slaughtered and thousands of men will be lost. With the stage set and stakes known, both men embark on an arduous trek across the invaded lands of northern France making their way through an assortment of environments across the span of a single day."1917" is a film that features a good plot, but not a great one; if anything it comes across as thin.. However, Mendes and Krysty WIlson-Cairns' script does include several moments that seamlessly flow from one to the next and keep the momentum of the story moving forward, while most importantly, leaving long and somber sequences for the film and the audience to breathe giving room for reflection. One of the script's greatest strengths is its pointed dialogue that says so much with so little. The performers do an excellent job to enhance the script by delivering their lines in a way that evokes a natural sense of emotion that resonates deeply with the audience. From the very start, both Chapman and MacKay come across as genuinely being close friends. We instantly buy into their relationship because every exchange the two gentleman have serves to further build their on-screen chemistry. In one of the film's earliest set pieces, Chapman and MacKay brilliantly convey their companionship as one that could be classified as a younger brother/older brother dynamic where Chapman's inexperience in the field is starkly contrasted to that of MacKay's calm demeanor; every step of the way the two are challenged and we witness their different reactions to a multitude of circumstances that further display their individual intricacies. With that being said, MacKay pulls out a true stand out performance as Schofield within this film. MacKay delivers an absolutely transformative performance that will keep you enthralled from beginning to end; it is a true presentation of skill that should not be overlooked.You can not discuss "1917" without speaking on the pre-production and execution of this film. Mendes took up the insurmountable challenge to shoot the entire film with the illusion of one continuous single shot (Despite the fact that a keen eye can spot where some of the cuts occur). The significance of the mission is known to both the cast and audience, so crafting this film with a single shot in mind is brilliant because as the passage of time moves forward, we stay on the edge of our seats knowing that with the exclusion of obvious cuts, the film is forced to keep pushing onward. All hands were on deck as the production team sculpted miniature sets to test their lighting rigs and get a direct layout of what needed to be accomplished. A dedicated team of designers were painstakingly tasked with bringing every "1917" set to life; and it pays off. With the knowledge of what track the camera was to follow and dozens of rehearsals, "1917" pulled off what most would not dare to try. When the actors are moving throughout these diverse environmental sets, every segment of the frame is packed to establish a dirty, yet natural world that is as beautiful as it is immersive. Whether it is an object in the background or a character in the foreground, David Crossman, Jacqueline Durran, Dennis Gassner, Lee Sandales, and Robert Voysey come together to create a world that is accurate to the times and precisely encapsulates the depressing realities of the First World War. The technical aspects that help shape "1917" into the marvelous film it is, serve as a reminder of the lengths a focused group of immensely talented people will go to create the best piece of work they possibly can and it should not go unnoticed."1917" is an enchantingly tense piece of art that straps you in and never lets go until the final cut to black. Mendes along with the entire cast and crew craft a truly immersive experience that paints the art of war as not one of bombastic explosions and blood, but one of fear, disarray and raw emotional weight that burdens every soldier on the battlefield. "1917" may not have the most engaging story to tell, but it does not need it; the way in which the film was made and shot is a triumph on its own that many can look to and see that an inspired group united to create a powerful work of art that will be talked about for going above and beyond its genre. "1917" is without a doubt, one of Sam Mendes' finest pieces of work.Final Verdict: B-
The cinematography in this film is oustanding. I knew about the long takes going in, but some of the shots are just mind blowing of how long they are and how many people are involved in the scene.I really didn't love the main duo that much in the beginning, but by the end of the film, I was impressed with both of them. Add this one to the list of great war films.
Wow what soldiers have to deal with in times of war is unreal just to watch a film about the horrors they had to endure is almost unbearable to watch never mind have to actually go through , well played by the two main actors and all supporting cast a very good film ....... 8/10 .....!!!
A British regiment is walking into a trap and the only way to reach them is by messenger. It's a long shot and the troopers know it so the commander has wisely chosen Corporal Blake, the brother of a member of the regiment to provide them with incentive to move with haste. His war weary mate's feelings remain mixed.Fix your bayonet and join Corporals Blake and Scofield in a race with death across No Man's Land, April 1917. Without an ounce of let-up 1917 is a film experience like no other with director Sam Mendes seemingly only having to yell action once. Relentlessly paced it gives the audience like our protagonists little time to pause or relax as Mendes infuses every moment with tension, every movement one of unpredictable suspenseful outcome.Dean Charles Chapman and George Mckay as the corporals give powerful performances as they make their way through this macabre obstacle course of death, decay and destrutction. Chafing with resentment at times, they nevertheless have each others backs and commit to the mission.Pantheon cinematographer Roger Deakins simply delivers one rousing image and bravura camera move after the next that plainly states why he is. He along with Mendes and company (editor Lee Smith, production designer Dennis Gassner) have not only made the best film of the year but the best since its ground breaking predecessor Birdman (2014). Falling out of its high velocity synch only once ( a scene with a refugee and child) 1917 is masterful film making that will awe on many levels.
Brilliantly filmed, well worth a watch for anyone who doesn't mind a bit of blood and guts.
Sam Mendes has created a masterpiece.The cinematography of 1917 grabs you and has you on the edge of your seat from start to finish. Portraying the film in a single shot, a technique I loved in Alejandro G. Irritu's Birdman (2014), was a difficult task to say the least. Sam Mendes has outdone all my expectations. We follow every footstep and we experience every moment of Lance Corporal Schofield and Blake's journey to deliver a message to the 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment halting their attack on the Germans. The shear amount of thought that has gone into making sure the the film flows into 1 shot without reusing the same set and ensuring what is round each corner is unique, is superb and unlike anything you can compare.Many war films fall into the trap of feeling like they have to pack the film with fighting scenes. 1917 hasn't. I loved the quiet scenes and the character monologues which show the other side of what soldiers experienced whilst at War. The scene following Schofield and Blake's close escape from the German trenches where Blake calmingly, and cheerfully tells Schofield a funny story just minutes after their near death, shows perfectly how there was no time to dwell. During these times keeping your mind off knowing you are at War being the biggest battle. During this scene Blake makes reference to the Cherry Blossoms that have been chopped down by the Germans, saying they remind him of home and times with his mother. A some what strange happy site for Blake allowing him to reminisce for better days. As Schofield drifts aimlessly down the rapids, exhausted and on the brink of drowning. The falling of the Blossom reminds him of the reasons he embarked on this journey, and memories with his lost friend now knowing that he is watching over. A real turning point in Schofields mind that he can successfully deliver the orders of General Erinmore.The reaction of Schofield to the melody of Wayfaring stranger is cold but perfect. Silence in this scene allows us to listen closely to the lyrics of the song and the deep emotion they hold. Schofield who has fought his own battle to deliver the message to stop the attack and those young men preparing to cross the front line are all in fact poor wayfaring strangers, travelling through this world below.A wonderful and moving encounter between Schofield and Blake's brother at the end, who his actions ultimately managed to save, tie the film perfectly to a close.I loved the directing
I loved the acting. For a young, new actor George MacKay is simply Brilliant in the role of Lance Corporal Schofield.
I loved the cinematography
I love the writing
I loved the music
I loved the lighting
I love the makeup
I loved it all.
1917Great MovieIt was refreshing that for once we had a director totally in control of his personal vision, from the script through the production to the directing and editing.A deeply memorable movie for all the right reasonsWhat was goodDespite the over-arching matter of futile warmongering amid the squalor of the trenches the Director chose to put front and centre different themes to explore, mate-ship, grief is a luxury, human resilience, etc.The tone and atmosphere was comprehensive, as with Hacksaw Ridge, we were there in the trenches our viewpoint was that of another soldier and we were forced to confront the horror.The use of humour as a pressure valve, the audience laughed at some macabre incidents, this was very cleverly used.The focus on the bonds that join men together in avarice, no conclusion was given, quite rightly, but it was palpable in its presence.The incredible use of all the cinematic forces as a vehicle to forward the story, we were all engaged, this aspect was greater than the sum of its parts.The score was really quite brilliant, the singing set piece was inspired.The incredible focus of creating believable characters perhaps the triumph of of this movie, when Corporal Blake died we felt grief.What was not so goodThe pacing was slow bordering on stop, however this was entirely intentional.The variety of the images, yes we had some diversion, the farm, the night scene, the cellar, the cherry orchard, the river, perhaps more arial shots or indeed the dog-fight.Lack of redemptive conclusions, Schofield arrived at his personal epiphany but this was not rammed home.With regard to awards, this year was overall a bad year for movies. This is perhaps best of the bunch with Ford v Ferrari a close second.
Don't be confused: this movie was absolutely amazing. The way they shot many of the scenes from the No-Man's Land to the ruined village was absolutely breathtaking. This movie along with Blade Runner: 2049 should be studied on how to direct or shoot a film.The film was also edited flawlessly as you could hardly find the cuts between scenes. And it really does work...most of the time. There were some scenes, such as when Schofield has an emotional moment, that take away from the true heartfelt potential in the film. The first ten minutes of the movie, I thought, didn't need the single-shot experience and made me feel distracted by the gimmick and not the movie.But trust me: when it works, it really works. One of my favorite movies is Children of Men because of how the film was shot and edited. The part where Clive Owen tries to cut through the battlezone to get to the girl and her child was one of rhe most brilliant pieces of filmmaking I've seen. 1917 reminded me of that in many ways. Roger Deakins is a master cinematographer and really knows how to make a frame look like a painting. The scope of the camerawork captures so much depth that you do feel immersed in the film. The scene where Schofield runs from two German soldiers in a ruined village stands out the most for me. All of this combined with the incredibly powerful score really adds to the gravitas the film provides.The most subtle piece that needs to be acclaimed, though, is the casting. That the two main actors are unknowns keeps the focus on them and their skills. The biggest names come and go like cameos, but you know exactly who they are. I don't know the two main actors, but you're engrossed with them and not distracted by their familiarity.1917 is a masterful war epic. Beautifully shot, epically scored, solidly directed. There are moments where the style overpowers the substance, but it makes up with moments of solid storytelling.
A simple story well told in one shot. Catchy from the beginning due to an astonishing camera work and music. Unfortunately, weak performances (exception the leading actor) ruined the possibility to watch a memorable film.
This is a good war movie. An old classic with a 21st century pastiche. The uninterrupted camera shot is meant to be noticeably cool, and yet, I really didn't notice it. Maybe that was the intention. It's easy to get used to. Or it could be a testament to how far we've come technologically. Either way, this is a gorgeous film. It's story is very touching as well. Unsung praise also goes to the acting here. The question is, did it warrant its Golden Globe win over The Irishman? Listen, this was good, but wtf Hollywood Foreign Press? No, not by any stretch of the imagination.
George Mackay's dead faced soldier is the perfect metaphor for the misery and indescribable trauma of the Great War.
This is an immersive, exciting depiction of some of the fighting of World War I. Sam Mendes should have cut or otherwise drastically modified the scene with the baby, but otherwise the movie is full of lean acting and dialogue that aren't overdone.
On my opinion this movie is definitely the greatest war movie comes after (Saving Private Ryan & Apocalypse Now).
this movie has a great plot with a slow Mounting in events, an excellent drama and soundtrack, a legendary cinematography that blowing your mind, we shall raise the hat for Sam & photographers they did a great work,1917 has the all qualifications and abilities that the great war movie should has. the acting was a superb especially from George Mackay he deserve a Nomination for his role as Lance Corporal Schofield, he made us attaching with the character.
I really loved this movie & I wish you are just like me.
This war movie it's not like any war movie before its from different angle of the war , showing the environment of the war of course show with great images by the great Roger Dickinse, and for who say the only thing special of this genra that it's one shot which is show like its one shot, which is hard, and the music is incredible, and who connect all that and give us this masterpiece Sam Mandes, this movie from the best movies of this which a great year for cinema and in the dicade, and from the best war movies ever ;because it's a special movie.
The cinematography of this film delivers in capturing a vision of the hell-scape of the WW1 battlefield in France. Many of the scenes are hauntingly surreal, my favorite being the night-fight lit only by flares overhead.I found myself frustrated by the main character's choices, though with the huge caveat that I have no idea how I would've actually reacted in his boots...and just as likely would've been one of the people pissing himself, paralyzed with fear like the captain in the final trench in the final battle.That said, the movie compels you to think "what would you do?" as we follow Blake and Scofield on their lonely mission. My gut instinct would've been to shoot the German pilot immediately in his burning plane, not try to rescue him. Likewise, the German NCO puking in the street at night from overindulgence with brandy was a sitting duck and I was hoping Scofield would shoot him in the head. He fails to do so and winds up having to strangle a German private with his bare hands a few minutes later--far more up close and personal and dangerous! Yes, shooting the German soldier in the street would've given away his position, but his surviving and yelling "Englnder!" did that anyway. Perhaps I've just played too many FPS videogames...I found myself frustrated to Scofield's choices at times. I found myself unsure what to do with the realization that I'm apparently a few degrees more bloodthirsty than he. He succeeds in his mission, so you can't argue with results, I guess. And the primary objective is to get from Point A to Point B as fast as possible, not to waste time fighting Germans. The story has a ring of truth to it because he does (partially) succeed. If this were pure fiction aiming to convey a sense of nihilistic pointlessness of war, then the orders would've become unreadable after being dunked in the river with Corporal Scofield and the attack would've gone off to utter disaster anyway. Or at the very least Lt. Blake would've been lost in the first wave--but miraculously wasn't. Likewise, Scofield's flouting my expectations with his flawed but all too human (and humane) choices lends it an air of credibility as well. Truth is stranger than fiction at times.One of the limitations of film is that while it can show us the horrific landscape of twisted, bloated, rotting corpses of horses and men, it can't reproduce the equally horrific stench that would've driven many of us insane. Likewise, unless we have personal experience to draw on, we only have our imaginations to guess what the mud & cold and discomfort felt like, and the words of survivors who wrote down their experiences for posterity.I didn't know quite what to expect from this movie and while I did enjoy the aesthetic cinematic experience, like others commenting here I also felt vaguely disappointed and dissatisfied. We aren't given enough connection to the two main protagonists to care as much as we should about their plight. A flashback scene to Scofield's visit home, seeing family & friends but having the heaviness of knowing he had to return to the front might've helped this film, or giving us more of Blake's pre-war backstory....this is what got sacrificed for the sake of the illusion of "one long take"...I also had minor quibbles with Corporal Scofield needlessly cycling the bolt action on his Lee Enfield, dramatically signaling his preparing to fight. The Lee Enfield rifle remains ever ready to fire after the first round is chambered. It's fine to show him run out of ammo and reload a fresh charger of ammo into the magazine, but beyond that he shouldn't be operating the bolt at all except between shots. But Hollywood & unreal Guns is a known cliche. Just eyeroll with it and get back to enjoying the story.
Personally, I loved this film. It really managed to bring me out of the cinema and let me into the movie. Unfortunately for me, I watched it with a bad projection meaning there were some juddery swooping shots however the fact that the illusion of one-shot was kept really blew me away.
1917 is a film which undoubtedly would have been ear marked for awards right from it's conception. The good news is that the film delivers on this potential. I'd be very surprised if it didn't win the Oscar for Cinematography and must have a good chance of taking away a few other gongs.The film is set in the trenches of world war one. It tells the story of 2 men who are tasked with delivering a message to the commanding officer of another battalion. The film really conveys just how awful conditions were for the troops involved in the trenches. The film gives the effect of being one take, but there are significantly different scenes along the way. Blake (Dean Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) are the soldiers tasked with delivering the message. They are excellent in the roles and aren't actors that I'm familiar with. None of the other actors have significant screen time, so if you are going along to see one of your favourites, don't expect them to be in it for long.1917 is an engrossing film and well worth seeing on the big screen.
This is one of those war films that is truly different from the others, having watched JoJo Rabbit the other day & then watching 1917, it totally changes your view on what war films can or cant be about, where as JoJo Rabbit had comedy in it along with some dark moments, 1917 was all grit & dark from the get go. The film is visually & musically simple but simple in a way that is really good at portraying war in a dark way, theres no crazy upbeat music, theres no cool camera angels or slo mo to change the picture, the way the film was made to look like it was done in one shot is really smart & cool, because it follows the soldiers every move while panning through the various trenches, looking past everyone that is there, waiting for a attack, waiting for next orders, everyone just waiting for that next uncertain move & that is what gives the picture such a beautiful presence. throughout the film. The camera work is spot on at showing the surrounding effects war has had on the land, whether its panning in on people buried under mud that have died, or birds pecking at a corpse or even the ton of barbed wire that is blocking the way with dead people stuck in them, or just the insane amount of mud. It's really obvious where they had to cut the film in places for obvious reasons but that doesn't matter.The film its self is based on a true story which is incredible that the message actually got through to the other regiment to stop the attack to save countless lives, it just proves how important & vital things were back then & how anything & everything was set out to stop the message being delivered yet some how, with everything in the way & all the chances they could of died along the way, they managed to succeed, along with this & all the other messages that are sent in the war, it makes you really think that how on earth did they do it.The film really does keep you on edge throughout the whole film because it keeps saying to you that every move is uncertain, you are literally wanting them to win & stay alive. At one point a nazi plane gets shot down & crash lands near the protagonists, then they proceed to help the nazi solider get out of the plane but you know what is going to happen, it blatantly shows a knife on the nazi solider & that he going to stab the English soldiers, i literally sighed & shook my head because it was so obvious that one of the English soldiers was going to die, now yes that may be the real part of the story but in normal films its normally a cheap way to get rid of someone so it kinda bugged me but it was real so whatever.Overall though it is a brilliant film & 100% worth watching & also do watch in 2D iMAX because the picture is way more filling that what it would be on a normal size cinema screen so it can give you the most effect while watching the film.Age - 25
Cinema: Cineworld Enfield iMAX 2D (Unlimited Card)
Watch, Avoid, Consider: 100% Watch, No Questions Asked.
I do not want to create controversies but we need to highlight all races which fight for the Allied Forces. I see very few of them with no rating in the film industry or I am missing something. In both World wars every race and ethnicity participated but the praise goes to one community is out of doubt.
"Historians pointed out that 2.5 million south Asian soldiers fought alongside Britain in the second world war. Some 1,000 Indian soldiers were also on the beaches at Dunkirk, not to mention non-white soldiers from elsewhere in the British empire, or the multi-ethnic rescue flotilla, or a heavily north African presence in the French army - none of whom seemed to figure among the movie's 6,000 extras. When you watch Dunkirk, remember that it's a whitewashed version which ignores the bravery of black and Muslim soldiers" (A review of the Dunkrik)
The same goes for all such movies created to highlight history of the WWI or WWII.
Hope for more. I was blown away by the intensity of this two shot movie right after stepping out from the theater. However, story was kind of weak. It's really like I played a very exciting video game and that's it.
GRADE: B+THIS FILM IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.IN BRIEF: A stunning visual testament to WWI.JIM'S REVIEW: Masterful in its direction and technically impressive, Sam Mendes' war epic, 1917, is a straightforward tale based on actual events about a dangerous mission during WWI. The dialog is minimal as is the character development. It is all action-based storytelling about two young British soldiers trying to stop an ambush behind enemy lines.Those corporals, Will Schofield (George MacKay) and Tom Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) focus on their goal to save lives while risking their own. The film is a series of perilous detours to deliver their message. It's part Saving Private Ryan meets Dunkirk. While it vividly shows the horrors of war and the heroic determination of those in the military, it rarely reaches a level of emotional connection. It is a tad too clinic in its approach with its narrative structure, as we go from one danger to the next. Sure, we care, but not to degree of gravitas that we should feel.Yet what makes this film so unique is the visual sweep of the film. Technically speaking, the imagery is powerful and Roger Deakin's superb cinematography is immersive on a grand scale. 1917 is staged as one continuous tracking shot. The fluidity of camera movement is astonishing and takes the moviegoer directly in the trenches and mud-soaked fields, unlike any other war film.Adding to the tension is Thomas Newman's haunting music score, Lee Smith's precise editing, and Dennis Gassner's production design that brings a sense of stark reality to Mr. Mendes' vision. While his screenplay, co-authored by Krysty Wilson-Cairn, would definitely benefit with stronger use of dialog to build greater interest and further depth of its characters, the visceral rush of the life and death events greatly compensates for this minor deficit.The director also wisely casts his film with unknown actors in the lead roles which provides more authenticity to his storytelling. Mr. Chapman and especially Mr. MacKay are excellent in their roles. They become the human faces of war in their physically demanding parts and most of the film's success depends on their nuanced portrayals. However, the sight of famous British actors in supporting roles like Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Richard Madden, and Andrew Scott undoes that casting decision, despite their fine acting contributions.1917 is a stirring testament to those who shall not grow old, told with extraordinary skill and the utmost respect to these fallen heroes.NOTE: The one shot tracking device has always intrigued filmmakers.
Alfred Hitchcock (Rope), Stanley Kubrick (Paths of Glory, The Shining, A Clockwork Orange), Orson Welles (Touch of Evil), and Martin Scorsese (Goodfellas) are just a few directors who plied their craft to this gimmick. Now add Sam Mendes to this illustrious group of artisans. 1917 is a memorable filmgoing experience due to his artistry and vision.Rent Peter Jackson's magnificent WWI documentary, They Shall Not Grow Old as a companion piece. Together, they tell the whole story.
George MacKay has added to his stardom with this unique war film. This epic tale has little dialogue, but weaves a warrior's tapestry through the organic yet unique filmography. Sam Mendes brilliantly explores the depths of war and how horrific it truly is, and shows his audience the capacity of the human spirit, even in the most dire of situations.
You had Wings as the first great WW1, and it won the first Academy Award for Best Film. And two years later, you had All Quiet on the Western Front, an interesting film based on the perspective of German soldiers. Both of those films richly deserved the award, but you have really not had a great WW2 film since 1930-31. Of course, there was Kubrick's Kirk Douglas anti-war film on WW1, Paths of Glory, but that does not match the scope of this film; a masterpiece of direction and execution of one continuous shot. Almost two hours of perfect movie-making. The acting is superb and the production values and music are letter-perfect. You couldn't make a better film. My pick for Best Picture, although it will get great competition from "Gems". Not to be missed.
Sam did not disappoint! A master of the visual, Mendes once again uses every inch of the screen to its fullest potential. The much spoken of "gimmick" aside, the film is brilliantly written. Never heavy-handed, the script is wonderfully efficient in its dialogue. It is a masterclass in show, don't tell. Back to the gimmick, it does not work if not for the performances from the two young actors. MacKay, especially, excels as a worthy Virgil in our trek through the hell of war. This is not a traditional war film. Like it's predecessor Jarhead, Mendes deconstructs war from the perspective of soldiers not to glorify or denounce war. Instead, it is a apathetic study of soldiers (humanity) in war. It is a must watch!!!
The cinematography was amazing, good story, slow build up. Acting was good as well
The camera work practically puts you in the movie. Experience the story like you are the third member of the team. Good building up of suspense. Ending was OK but lacked punch. Was expecting something a little more dramatic from the final scene.A movie that must be watched on the big screen.
Incredibly moving reality of WW1, no Hollywood style action sequences. Brutally honest account of the brutality faced by those young men sent to war.Easily one of the best war films in a long long time since Dunkirk, Saving Private Ryan etc.
Roger Deakins' cinematography and visual style saved 1917 from being just a standard and almost boring movie. All the technical aspects are 10/10 and I would say the story is mostly fine. There were some illogical moments and second half of the movie really dragged. This is just a little weaker Dunkirk.
I have to come to terms with the fact that I enjoy war movies. I've denied this for years--decades even--because I detest war and I don't care to see a movie glorifying war. But, what I've come to realize is that most war movies do not glorify war. A lot of them are human interest stories--stories about one or a few characters that are involved in a war. They're not war mongers, they're not policy makers, they're just people doing a dirty job."1917" is about people as well. More specifically it's about two British soldiers that have to get to a certain battlefront to deliver a message: "Do not attack, it's a trap." One of the soldiers, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman), has a brother in the targeted battalion so he has added incentive to get there.One of the more spectacular aspects of this movie was the camera work. Somehow, they made the entire movie look like one continuous camera shot with no cuts. Through trenches, barbed wire, around men, in and out of buildings, etc., and the camera was continuously rolling.This is something I tend to pay attention to and something I really appreciated in the movie "Children of Men" when there were a few extended scenes with no cuts. In this movie it is an entirely different level. I know that there had to be cuts and my assumption is that they were expertly done when panning from one point to another, but that's just my guess. In any case it was a marvel.Expert camera shots and editing alone aren't enough to make a movie worthwhile. The story and the characters are ultimately going to be the draw. Like many war stories, this was a story of self-sacrifice. The true strength of the movie comes in the form of its authenticity. The more authentic the more gripping, the more personal, the deeper the emotional connection to the overall story and its characters. "1917" offers that along with some awesome cinematography.
It is April 1917. The 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment is poised to attack the Germans near the Hindenburg Line in northern France. General Erinmore has learned that the 2nd Battalion is walking into an ambush. He sends two British soldiers to warn the Devonshire Regiment not to go forward with the attack that would decimate the more than 1,600 men of the Devonshire Regiment. They have less than 24 hours to find the regiment and deliver orders to Colonel MacKenzie to stand-down.The film is produced by Sam Mendes whose grandfather, Alfred Mendes served in World War I. The film is based on a narrative by the elder Mr. Mendes about two young British soldiers that crossed enemy lines to save a regiment that is walking into an ambush. The film stars; George MacKay, Dean-Charles Chapman, Mark Strong, Andrew Scott, Richard Madden, Claire Duburcq, Colin Firth, and Benedict Cumberbatch. The cinematographer is Roger Deakins who is known for creating long continuous shots in one take. He is a master of using zoom, pan, and tilt technics with a steady-cam that follows a character through numerous scenes in one single shot.The film opens with Lance Corporals Tom Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Will Schofield (George MacKay) napping on a grassy hill when they are summoned to report to General Erinmore (Colin Firth). If you remember from history, World War I was called the "trench war" because both the British and German soldiers dug deep elaborate trenches on the battlefield. This would allow soldiers to move around freely while protecting them from small arms fire, artillery shells, and mustard gas. The land between the two opposing armies or fronts was referred to as "No Man's Land". Anyone crossing into this zone was considered, dead. A barbed-wire ran parallel to the trenches was usually littered by dead bodies both human and animal.The two soldiers set out running through a labyrinth of trenches, then crossing "No Man's Land" into the German front making their way through the German trenches and finally behind enemy lines. Along the way, they run into trouble but they manage to keep one another motivated with one goal in mind; to save the men of the 2nd Battalion of the Devonshire Regiment as well as Corporal Blake's brother, Lieutenant Joseph Blake (Richard Madden).The film is a cinematic masterpiece. Sam Medes managed to take the audience into the trenches. We were made to feel the corporals' cold and wet as they crawled in and out of bomb craters. As well as the smell of death that surrounded these two brave men. We experienced the fear of Corporal Schofield as he ran from German snipers and other soldiers as he hid in the bombed-out village of coust-Saint-Mein. There Corporal Schofield comes across Lauri (Claire Duburcq) a French woman and a baby hiding in a bombed-out building. As dawn came, the corporal had only hours to find the 2nd Battalion and when it was time to leave it was heartbreaking to watch him walk away from Lauri and the baby as he had to move on to complete the mission.We cheered Corporal Schofield on as he sprints through the battlefield as soldiers from the 2nd Battalion poured on to the field amidst the artillery shells raining down on the troops. The corporal finally makes his way through the trench to Colonel Mackenzie (Benedict Cumberbatch) to deliver the orders from General Erinmore. The battalion is ordered to stand-down and the corporal is left with one more mission to complete. He finds Corporal Blake's older brother, Lt. Joseph Blake, to give him the sad news about his younger brother, who was killed by a German pilot they saved from a burning plane. As the two stand there, we feel the pain that both of these men shared."1917" received 10 nominations including Best Picture and Best Director and of course Best Cinema-photography. This is a definite must-see if not for its historical value, but for its photography and storytelling from the point-of-view of someone that was there slogging through the mud in the miles of trenches.
'1917 (2019)' is an exercise in suspense. As its two leads creep across an increasingly deserted 'no man's land', the music ebbing and flowing with each carefully placed step, the unseen threat of sudden death looms. It's constantly moving forward, yet manages to balance action and character incredibly well. It ebbs and flows, often moving straight from quiet contemplation to ear-rattling battle, and it's - more often than not - truly gripping. It's also unexpectedly affecting, tugging at your heart on more than one occasion. Of course, the thing on everyone's lips is its almost 'one take' appearance, crafted using clever camera-work and subtle visual effects. It is, undoubtedly, impressive. It hurts the flick almost as much as it hurts it, though. Sometimes, it creates a nearly unparalleled sense of immersion, wrapping you in an edge-of-your-seat fight for survival set over one hundred years ago. Elsewhere, it distances you from the narrative, more technically impressive than actually necessary; I find myself trying to figure out exactly how each 'hidden take' is achieved, with the answer typically being more spectacular than anticipated. Still, the experience is an absolute feat of film-making prowess. It's exciting, tense, stunning and sad, its story more poignant than you'd think possible for such a technically focused affair. It would be spectacular even if it didn't have a 'one take' appearance. 8/10
It's 1917, France, and two soldiers are sent on a mission to cross no man's land and get a message to another platoon to stop an attack that would result in great losses.
This is a fantastic film. Beautifully shot, with long tracking shots that heighten the urgency of the quest, and a music score that adds to the tenseness. (I needed a restorative G & T afterwards) Wonderful performances from George Mackay and Dean-Charles Chapman and great support from a who's who of British actors. Don't miss this on the big screen.
Everything about 1917 was spectacular. The quite breathtaking photography, the wonderful acting, the list is endless. This was a rivetting masterpice that held my attention for its entirety. Incredibly powerful and extremely moving.
"1917" is more an experience than it is a movie; it's as if you're an invisible soldier right there on the battlefield, waking up alongside Lance Corporals Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman, "The King") and Schoefield (George MacKay, "Marrowbone"), before you're tasked to carry out the mission with them. I say this film is an experience more than a film because it feels like a virtual WWI experience: you follow these soldiers from the moment they get their mission to the moment their mission comes to an end (however that may be), quite literally never breaking away from them.The film is made to look as if it's two long unbroken shots, and yes, there are hidden cuts throughout the film, and some of them are more obvious than others, but the length of the shots is probably the main draw of this film. It makes it incredibly unique as far as the intensive technical aspects that needed to be coordinated for every shot, but it also gives the film a whole new perspective that doesn't focus so much on the action of war, but instead on the desolation it causes to the surrounding countryside (sort of like Elem Klimov's "Come and See" or Tarkovsky's "Ivan's Childhood"). While the story "1917" might be incredibly simple, it absolutely makes up for it with it's amazing direction, production design, cinematography, and subtle character development. "1917" is far from my favorite film of the year (2019 was a great year for movies), but it's still a 5/5 Star film in terms of sheer ambition and exe!
War drama.The movie closely follows two ordinary soldiers, shot over a 24hr period, who have been tasked with a seemingly impossible mission. In a race against time, they must cross enemy territory and deliver a message that (if successful) will stop the massacre of 1600 of their own troops.This is a very simple idea, but it works so well because it has been shot as near as they could manage, as one long take. Sam Mendes used this technique at the beginning of 'Spectre' and used here puts the viewer right in the thick of the action. However, watch carefully and you'll see where the very subtle edits have been made. The heroes are in constant danger and the viewers are apparently projected into the very tense and totally gripping scenes.The movie is an enormous technical achievement, and remarkably executed, I was exhausted at the end.
Worth seeing on the big screen because visually it's brilliant and the set fantastic but it's let down by the acting inability of Dean-Charles Chapman who might as well have had the script in his hand to read from. (George McKay was very good though). The dialogue wasn't quite right either for soldiers enduring that. It was all a bit luvvy and stood out as weak amongst such a strong production. So a pity it came up short and lacked those elements which could have really made it special.
This movie is suspenseful. Impending doom looms from scene to scene. The realistic setting is enthralling, as is the pacing. My only complaint is the storytelling. It relies too heavily on beats and themes we've already seen in War movies.
Here we go. One of my most anticipated films of the year, and it's being released in the dumping ground of the middle of January in the UK. It almost seems too perfect. We have a film that looks like it's going to generate some real buzz from UK audiences out in cinemas at a time where there is nothing to compete with it. Of course, as a cinema goer it's annoying that there's nothing else new coming out, but, if the hype is to be believed, this film is something special. And to explain why I'm looking forward to this film so much, I will need to discuss a war film that came out a few years ago.In July 2017, Christopher Nolan brought us Dunkirk, a furiously raw and bleak take on one of the key turning points in World War II, and ended up being a film I admired rather than loved. It fell in a wired middle ground for me between being too colourless and bleak to be able to get properly invested in, but also the narrative required us to have some kind of feeling towards the characters for it to properly work, and when Tom Hardy spends pretty much his whole role struggling to emote from behind a constrictive mask, connecting with those characters can be difficult. The narrative is certainly satisfying and it's glorious from a structural standpoint, but it didn't quite work for me for reasons I struggled to articulate at the time.1917 looks set to provide the counterpoint to Dunkirk that I've been looking for for the past two and a half years. And, make no mistake, the film looks amazing. I think we might have an early contender for film of the year. In other words, I was looking to see the film the day it finally gets that wide release and see whether it lives up to my sky-high expectations. So, is it as good as I'd hoped?Yes. Not only did this film exceed my expectations, it might just go down as a genre defying classic. Every war movie made from this point is going to be compared to 1917 (and maybe even some that came before), and it is a masterpiece without comparison. I almost feel bad for even comparing this film to Dunkirk in my preamble, because the comparison hardly seems fair. Sure, Christopher Nolan might have had a solid grasp of the fundamentals that make up a solid war movie when he made Dunkirk, but director of 1917 Sam Mendes understands the key thing that Nolan was missing. The understanding that to make a great war movie you don't need to compromise the human core. Dunkirk was a good film, but it felt stone cold. 1917 on the other hand, despite its murky tones and just as heavy themes, still grounds its narrative in real humanity, that being the relationship between two brothers, the younger of whom has been tasked, along with a colleague, to rescue sixteen hundred soldiers, including his older brother, who are walking into a trap after an orchestrated retreat by the Germans. Not only is it a well written narrative, but there are real relationships here that elevate them further.But the characters and how clearly and effectively they are both sketched out accounts to almost nothing in the grand scheme of things, especially in comparison to the technical achievement that this film is. Whoever had the one take idea is a genius. I don't know if Sam Mendes himself had the idea to tell the story in that way, but whoever did deserve all the credit in the world. And it links into the central idea of the film. Everything about it is engineered to create a bleak atmosphere, and the one-shot approach is only half the story there. I am in awe of the team that worked on the set design and lighting for the shots when Schofield arrives in Ecoust, and the acting is second to none, with George MacKay acting like his life depended on it. I believed every moment of MacKay's performance. It had me in tears both times I saw it by the end. There is a belief and a commitment and an understanding of war that, once again, is not so cold hearted to neglect the human element that comes through in MacKay's performance that is damn near transcendent. There is blood, metal, brutal gunfire and a whole lot of fire in this movie, and the diegetic sound that beautifully compliments the framing of every moment draws attention to every little detail of the brutality of war so expertly that it's hard to believe that this film was constructed by people rather than just existing independently of everything.It's nothing short of extraordinary, and I haven't even got to talking about the drop-dead gorgeous cinematography. The wide low-level tracking shots as Schofield and Blake negotiate their way though no man's land are chill inducing, the wide shot of Schofield entering Ecoust is one of the greatest things I've ever seen on a screen, and the camera movement is consistently seamless, especially in the few instances the camera pans. One of the most inspired choices in the cinematography in this film is the use of handheld camera. Sure, there are plenty of still shots, especially as Schofield is in a state of mourning his colleague in the film's opening act, but the camera is never planted and properly still. Just when you thought the film wasn't technically ambitious enough. And this unsettled choice of camera technique only elevates the film further, highlighting the uncertainty of the characters about their future, made all the more tragic by the circumstances in which Blake has his life ended after the pair negotiated the German front line. After a German plane crashes in front of them, Blake attempts to help the injured pilot, even as Schofield suggests putting him out of his misery. Blake's efforts were cut short when he was stabbed to death by the enemy pilot he was trying to rescue. Again, there is a real humanity to the characters that this film is not afraid to foreground. It makes the moment where Schofield breaks the news to his deceased friend's brother in the film's closing moments all the more heartbreakingly beautiful. Again, the ending had me in tears both times I have watched it.1917 is a film so well realised, so exceptionally crafted and so unfathomably and tremblingly raw that it's challenging to express. Amazingly good acting, technical ambition and a story that leaves nothing to be desired. Without a doubt this is the film to beat in 2020, and I'd be surprised if anything does.
I wasn't sure what to expect from a WWI one-shot movie, but I could not take my eyes off the screen! The storytelling is incredible and shows the effectiveness of showing a story rather than telling it.Please note, while the movie is labeled as being a 'one-shot' film, there are a few places where the cuts are noticeable.
1917 was based off Sam Mendes' grandfather's account of the First World War and the film proved to be an unbelievably powerful reflection of the horrors the world faced after Franz Ferdinand's assassination in 1914. You can feel the desperation, angst and terror the soldiers faced at the time: and the film's use of one-shot-takes gives the viewer the impression they're actually there WITH the battalion of British Allied Soldiers. It's ridiculously well-done whilst being very harrowing stuff, and it all really happened (at least the tension around Operation Alberich was firmly rooted in history).This film's like a one-shot Dunkirk but tries capturing the dehumanizing qualities of war from works like All Quiet on the Western Front and War Horse. 1917 is a war movie that gives a new perspective on tried-and-true historical cinema, and it's World War One setting is oddly fitting for today's political dilemmas, mistrust of authority and national interests clashing with the individual soldier being used as a pawn to achieve whatever means to an end. Historical stuff aside, the bunker booby-trap scene with the rat was set up beautifully and the way this film was made gives that scene undiluted tension and fright when you see what happens on-screen. Seriously, that scene might become the stuff of cinematic legend and used as a how-to guide on delivering unexpected shocks from an unlikely place.1917 is pretty damn solid cinema and the direction delivers a lot to the character of the film's story itself: it's one continuous journey that's as relentless as war itself and its immersion is groundbreaking stuff.5/5 stars. It's a great experience with an impactful story.
I still want to give this film 8 stars despite its obvious and implausible plot contrivances. I won't spoil the experience by identifying them , and the point is that while you are watching the movie, they don't matter, as that is the best thing about this movie, in that you are fully absorbed in the "one take" experience. It is only after watching the film, after you have come down to earth again, that your logical brain starts to say " hey wait a minute..."But even with the obvious stylishness, it is a very good film and you know what, it just goes to show other directors of how CGI and special effects can be used to support the film's narrative and they don't become a dominating factor in their own right to prop up the story line - no caped american superheroes or marvel costumes here - just a ripping good story filmed for adults. Go see it.
War/combat movies are hit or miss for me. 1917 is a hit in my books. If you really dislike war/combat movies and/or the depiction of death makes you uncomfortable, then give it a miss. Otherwise, I'd take it in if I were you. See it on a big screen if at all possible.
It was an immersive movie that you don't want to take your eyes off the screen of. It had the feeling of a video game because of the way it is filmed but yet I liked it because it is in real time and you only see what the director wants you to see. There are very few shots of any that pan out. Many are close as if you are right there with the main characters. It makes you feel a part of the story and very well done. I've never seen a movie quite like this. The intensity is great and it makes you feel as if you are there in the war. The trench scenes are amazing and feel as if you are there in the war. It is spot on to detail and I love that the big name actors have a relatively small part and let the young actors shine. They do a great job. One of the best war movies I've seen next to saving private Ryan. It's just as good just different.
Unlike any war film I have ever seen.... I mean the attention to detail is impeccable in this movie as well as just the sure realism that is portrayed through not only the acting but the action as well.
1917 awesome epic of a thing. Todays youth should be made to view it. The cogent stench of death and arrogance is in your face. This is what transpires when peoples cut the dialogue off. The scene where the officer suggests to our runner soldier to have present some witnesses at the message delivery point is so apt then and now. Magnificient effort.
Patrick
Real and gripping this film tells a story and envelops you in the gritty details. You are there alongside the protagonist from the very start all the way through a harrowing journey, a spirit looking over the shoulder taking in the same scenes. If you are fortunate to miss the parts that pull you out of it, you will be living the scenes yourself. This is why I recommend watching this without outside inputs, living the haunting realities of the Great Wars safely from your chair.
You may know by now, but the movies "continuous shot" style is beyond amazing. The clever shooting and editing make this movie a masterpiece. The action was all believable and the drama felt real. If you're a fan of war movies, this may end up topping your list of favorites. Do yourself a favor and see this movie.
Now that all the glittery dust has settled at the golden globes and 1917 has made away with best picture award and stolen the weekend at the box office with over 37 million I finally got to see it. And guess what it was great. Sam Mendes's execution of the WWI flick is a unique, edge of your seat ride that follows two men as they try and warn a battalion before they fall into an enemy trap. George Mackay of Pride(2014) is our guide through a horrific war torn landscape that's as nightmarish as it is beautiful. The execution makes you feel as if the entire venture is one non stop shot that you're unwillingly participating in. Theres not alot of development character wise and that's definitely a conscious decision but because of that I felt oddly disconnected at times. That being said the first half of the movie has an intense first person flow to it that's almost unbearable at times. But when it finally breaks for air, when our lead comes into contact with a young woman it reminded me I was in a theater. It was a solid scene but definitely broke up the pace. That being said it returns to its anxiety splitting pace not long after. When I say this movie is intense I mean it but it does stop and smell the roses so to speak. It is quiet and inspired. The lead performance from George Mackay is really fantastic and definitely deserves some award attention as does the film which I'm sure will ring it up at the Oscars and deservedly so. From the sweeping but intimate cinematography to the nerve shredding score. Its definitely one of 2019s best.
We just saw 1917. Oh my. What an excellent film. Normally if critics love a film (as they do this one), it will be too artsy or hoity-toity (there's a term you haven't heard in a while!) for us (like Uncut Gems, which was a total waste of time and money), but this time, the critics are right. Ignore all the blathering about directing techniques and just revel in this amazing story of courage way above and beyond belief. 10 big stars from both of us.
Being the director of Skyfall is a dubious distinction, a movie which shows you Sam Mendes has enough talent to waste Javier Bardem's talent. Did the marketing team for 1917 forget that Mendes won a Best Director and Best Picture Oscar for American Beauty? Regardless, it is advisable to avoid watching 1917 and Uncut Gems in the same day, unless you bring along a change of shirts.While watching the continuous shots of 1917, it is difficult to not wonder whether the more entertaining show is actually going on behind the cameras, as the cast and crew frantically get positioned and repositioned for the next scene, pushing ever forward into and out of the trenches. Regardless, 1917 as we see it, is an entertaining, stressful, and sometimes tender amalgamation of World War I anecdotes, a reminder that war is hell, and the push for another hundred yards of territory might be a complete disaster, a senseless loss of life and limbs.Life is not the finish line, but rather how you avoid death along the way, whether it be gunshots, knife stabs, plane crashes, mortar fire, collapsing tunnels, loathsome diseases, or a nagging sense of dread and ennui. Wars, especially world wars, should serve as a morose reminder that we should never take peace for granted, and we need clear understandings of what we fight for.
It's an ok movie, but it's too freaking long. That's it that's the review.
"1917," set during World War I, is the story of two young British soldiers, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay), impossible mission to deliver a message to another battalion in occupied German territory. If they succeed in getting there, their letter to retreat will stop 1,600 men, and one of the soldiers' brothers, Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman), from walking into certain doom."1917" is the newest film from "American Beauty" director Sam Mendes. Unlike "American Beauty," which relies on great characters and a strong story, "1917" never gives time to develop these attributes. The action in the film moves so quickly that we never get much character development time with Blake (Chapman) and Schofield (MacKay). When we do, those times were great, both Chapman and Mackay performed excellently in their dialogue scenes. But, these scenes were the only time we could get a sense of their personalities. Scenes that ultimately felt like pauses between the technically genius one-shot style frantic action scenes, and never the primary focus of the film.The best aspect of "1917" is the cinematography. You can't help but get a heart-wrenching feeling as you move with the characters through the rat-infested trenches. We pass by shell shocked soldiers who look like they've been squatting in the same position for hours, maybe even days-every moment radiantly captured by the genius cinematographer, Roger Deakins. Who now, almost yearly, earns an Oscar nomination for each film he does. Years back, he was the Coen brothers go-to director of photography now each project he does seem to be bigger and bolder than the next. Deakins brings an excellent theater experience to each film he does, and "1917" will not disappoint. There's a scene in the movie that uses bombs and flare flashes to light a night scene that came out so beautifully while adding a layer of tension to the story that I found astounding to watch."1917" made me think of "Saving Private Ryan," but if you cut out 3/4 of the story and kept just the action scenes. I wouldn't say I like bringing up other movies while reviewing, but I feel like one can't help do that with the war movie genre. In "Saving Private Ryan," there's a more elaborate storyline, a stronger sense of knowing the characters, and also great action. "1917" gives only the action part of the formula, in my opinion. But, the unbroken shot technique to show World War I action was so impressive that it made the movie thrilling to watch the whole time.
Very good movie, will have to admit. Wanted to see it on Christmas Day but the studio pulled the rug out from under everyone and released it this weekend, presumably to escape Star Wars. My main reason for going to see this movie was because Sam Mendes directed, so I know what to expect from him. It attracted the usual war movie crowd, some of whom tend to rub me the wrong way, if you know what I mean, but nevertheless, almost every seat in the theater was full and very few people ever got up for any reason.The one shot theme in this movie does an excellent job of illustrating what the trenches were like and almost feels like it's putting you in the shoes of the characters. I wouldn't say it's the best movie out there, too many characters are doing foolish things that probably wouldn't happen in real life. It is a movie, if this didn't happen, it would be boring. There were a lot of times that characters did things that I assume they wouldn't because of training and protocol.I liked seeing Sikh and black soldiers serving with the British in the movie. Quite often in war movies such as World War I and II, you see minority soldiers ignored even though they served. At first, it looks like some sort of revisionist history, but these men were there, thankfully depicted as they were, not serving as generals or something.There will be some complaints from the audience. I've heard that it felt soulless. I blame the one shot them employed in the entire movie. If you are familiar with the film fanboy discussions on Daredevil, you will have heard about the one shot take fad. So I understood what was going on, but other people won't. There also isn't much action or fighting. I almost want to say that it's not really a war movie. If you're looking for more action and fighting, watch Gallipolli, the TV miniseries, it's on certain subscription streaming sites. This will be well worth your time, highly recommended!
I saw 1917 today
directed by Sam Mendes which did an amazing job. the main characters Tom blake played by Dean-Charles Chapman and William Scofield (sco) played by george Mackay are given a mission to deliver a message in enemy territory that will stop 1600 from falling into a German trapThe cinematography is expertly crafted in a way that is very involving through using one shot takesThe pacing is made in a way for you to feel the highs and the lows of the movie with really good sound design almost giving thriller vibesIt has some unnecessary scenes and might seem boring in some areas
In conclusion I give 1917 a 8/10
A visceral experience from start to finish. The lingering shots on our lead tells you all you need to understand his struggle and his motives. No other film has had such an emotional impact on me. I highly recommend a visit to the cinema for this one.
Sam Mendes has created a master piece of writing, acting and cinematography. The whole crew of this film bring their a-game and it's blatantly obvious when you watch it.I haven't cried this much at a film since I last watched Paddington 2
Sam Mendes is one of my favourite directors working today so that alone made me excited for 1917. That excitement only increased after the one-shot approach was announced. The coming together of this Director, approach, setting and Cinematographer convinced me this film was going to be something special and i truly could not have loved it more. I truly believe this film will be remembered as a landmark in film making and I cannot wait to see it again.Technically speaking this film is jaw dropping. The one shot approach never feels tedious or over done but instead completely immersive. Because of this, the tension is only exploited more. It truly feels like a 3 man mission, with the viewer feeling like the 3rd person in this mission. This is due to Sam Mendes gorgeous direction but also Roger Deakins spectacular cinematography. His work in this film is truly stunning no matter what setting the film takes, he truly deserves his second Oscar for this film and cannot see the academy not giving it to him.George MacKay And Dean-Charles Chapman both carry this movie wonderfully, I've seen other work from both actors before but this is truly the best I've ever seen both of them. Their chemistry is on point and there are plenty of subtle moments that build their characters. I truly hope to see more from both of them in the future. The rest of the Supporting cast play fairly small roles but all worked perfectly for what they needed to achieve. Richard Madden And Benedict Cumberbatch probably stand out the most as they both come into play at the end of the film and pay off in what we were expecting to see from them.I truly loved how this film portrayed its setting. It doesn't feel like it conforms to the usual cliches found in other war films. It conveys the horrible conditions of war and the constant fear of death in ways I haven't seen enough from other films of this type. I found myself latching onto the characters because the writing had made them so human and relatable. As cheesy as it sounds you do truly feel like a participant in this war during the 2 hours you spend with these characters.1917 is a masterpiece and very possible the best film of 2019. Mendes' one-shot, vision is truly realised to perfect effect and feels immersive like no other film before it. Roger Deakins stunning work in this film truly makes it feel as if no one else could have pulled of the cinematography to this level of perfection. The films gives us just enough character development to care about everyone involved. The film puts you into World War One for the 2 hours it has you and I wouldn't have had it any other way.10/10 - A+ (Incredible)
1917 is an absolute masterpiece in every single way. It is a shot in a very similar style to Birdman (2014), in the fact that the majority of the film is one shot without cutting away. There are a couple of cuts where there needs to be, but this is done extremely well and it allows the audience to feel as if we have actually been on this adventure with the two lead characters.The cinematography is outstanding and I would be completely shocked if it doesn't win that award at the Oscars. I'm also pretty sure that it will win for having the best score of the year, and it absolutely should do. It was subtle when it needed to be, but loud and bombastic at other times. It really added to the emotion, and I couldn't help but tear up towards the end of the film. Not necessarily because I was sad about what was happening, but because the combination of the musical score and the narrative were so powerful.An event happens at the end of the first act which changes things significantly. I really didn't like the decision at first, but then I saw what the director, Sam Mendes, was trying to convey and I ran with it. The film actually worked once this decision had been made and I was glad it didn't bring the experience down for me. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that the film works better after this event has taken place.The acting across the board is superb. No one gets much screen time apart from the two leads, but that was fine because I was completely riveted by their journey and I can't wait to see it again.1917 is an experience unlike any other I have had in quite some time. The film came out in 2019 according to the Academy Awards, and it would definitely get my vote for Best Picture of the year.SCORE: 100%
Everything was amazing, how the shots were made, and they managed the tension in scenes was very good. The only thing it's that I think the main character was really stupid in decision making.
Very likely the best movie I have ever seen. Amazing from beginning to end.
Heart pounding grabs you from the start and doesn't let go. Heartfelt moment of true compassion and a will to carry on.
I'll keep this review short.It was really amazing to watch. The one take camera effect surely benefitted this movie.
The story was really solid and there were some good anti-climaxes in it. WW1 was also generally a good idea since it's not talked about as much as WW2, so this movie gave a good view on that as well and the actors did an amazing job. I really was immersed and felt
the emotions with all these dead/dying soldiers.Definitely going to re-watch this in the near future.
There really isn't more I can say that others have already said other than just about every scene or encounter was suspenseful, and/or emotionally charged and or/ hauntingly touching. Excellent chemistry throughout the entire movie! This movie will touch you. See it!!!
1917 is a well made, carefully crafted movie.Brilliant writing, phenomenal acting and directing, and gritty realism make 1917 a truly great movie. The "one shot" aspect initially turned me off to the film, thinking it was a gimmick, but I was thoroughly impressed by how well it was executed. Overall 1917 is an achievement of filmmaking, and worth seeing.Toting itself as "one shot" is a bit misleading. It nearly accomplishes this, but there is one hard cut, which feels out of place considering the rest of the editing. The "hidden" cuts are sometimes quite obvious. Despite these aspects being flawed, it is still an astonishing feat of cinematography and editing. Thematically this style compliments the story being told and for what is mostly excellent acting and direction.The film can be divided into three noticeable acts. 1: No man's land/the farm, 2: the city, 3: the frontline. By far the first act is the strongest, the chemistry between the leads is amazing, and the setting is thoroughly immersive. After the farm, the films greatness wanes and becomes a little more standard. There is a great scene when things slow down, and humanity returns in this portion but it is overshadowed by a strong attempt to increase tension. (Strong in that it does work, but by contrast it tarnishes the rest of the film). The third act sees a return to great direction, choreography, and filmmaking in general. Act 3 is a strong conclusion to the film, and redeems some of the lesser qualities in the middle.On a technical level the sound design was great, and the soundtrack, was refreshingly minimal. 1917 takes logic and action in a fairly realistic (though possibly heightened at times) manner. This means that sound effects needed to feel connected, and the score shouldn't override the visuals. What should have happened is thankfully what did. The score is never overbearing, and each sound effect feels genuine to the scene its placed.While 1917 almost loses its way in the middle, it finds itself again towards the end. It's an enjoyable movie, which will make its way to being another classic.Final score (81/100)
(This review has previously been posted on Chick and a Flick.)I don't like war movies, never have. They usually play one of two ways - an effects-heavy love ballad to gore and violence or a hearty tale of brotherhood among men who can't wait to talk about the girls waiting back home. The ones that focus more on fact over fiction will hold my attention a little longer, but my historical interests tend to skew towards the royal court of Henry the Eighth. So no, I don't like war movies and I didn't like 1917. I loved it.The story follows two British soldiers during the first world war and their journey across hostile territory to pass on a message that will save hundreds of lives - if they make it. Blake, played by Dean-Charles Chapman (Game of Thrones' Tommen Baratheon) and Schofield, played by George MacKay (Hamlet in the 2018 film Ophelia, which I only recently learned about and is now on my watchlist) are quickly likable and their easy, youthful friendship gives the movie a light start. Unfortunately, movies that attach you to the main characters so quickly tend to immediately send them into danger and 1917 is no exception.Schofield and Blake are called to see the general who informs them that there is an attack planned for the next morning that needs to be stopped. Turns out the Germans weren't really retreating, they were luring the British into a trap and if the attack goes on, all 1,600 men will die. Unfortunately, the phone lines have been cut and they can't call them, so the only way to warn them is by a hand-delivered letter. This is where Blake comes in - with his expert navigation skills, he should be able to make his way past the German front lines and to the camp of the 2nd battalion. In case orders aren't enough, the stakes are made even more personal when it is revealed his brother is one of the 1,600 men.They set off on their journey and we're quickly - too quickly - exposed to the horrors of war. The devastation is immediate as we are first introduced to the wounded, and then to the dead. As the pair begin their trek across no man's land, we see horrors that no man should ever have to witness and with each devastating visual, you are reminded that this isn't just a movie - this is someone's past, someone's memory.Though the story is a work of fiction, it is in fact based in some reality - director Sam Mendes' grandfather, Alfred Mendes went on his own life-threatening journey across no man's land in his time serving during World War I. These tales of war first relayed to Mendes in his childhood, stayed with him, eventually inspiring the creation of 1917.And what a creation it is. Emotionally charged from start to finish, it's hard to not judge this movie from such a personal perspective. Beyond just being visually stunning, it's the way the visuals are presented that takes it to the next level - the entire thing is made to look like one continuous take.I will admit, I was skeptical about the idea when I first heard what they were doing, but within minutes of the movie starting, I was hooked. Something happens when a movie unfolds in "real-time" and in such close proximity - you become a part of it. You're no longer watching two soldiers delivering a message during a war. You are the third soldier, a silent partner on a dangerous mission. There isn't that detached feeling of an observer, your emotions are heightened because you're experiencing it with them - the fear, the anxiety, the sadness, the determination. I will say this again and again - movies aren't just meant to be watched, they're meant to be felt and 1917 does this brilliantly.There is so much to like about the movie - the actors, the music, the story, the sheer artistry of it all - but it's the emotional core that gives it such a high place in my heart and my rating scale. This is more than just a war film - this is a story of humanity, determination, loyalty, and friendship. It's a harsh but necessary reminder of the cost of war, a hope that we can be better than we were before. It's a testament to the bond between a grandson and grandfather. It is a truly wonderful piece of art, the kind of movie that awards are made for. The stunning package is just the pretty ribbon attached to the medal.
WWI movies are not so frequent, but when they are good, they convey the view most effectively that wars are to be avoided.
One aspect was absent: that the action takes place in France. It looks terribly like where the movie is shot, England and Scotland, weather, landscape and all.
I have a recurring dream.It's a common one.In it I am a soldier trying to evade the grasp of my enemy in a war zone. I sneak around fields, towns, villages often being spotted, running for my life. Sometimes I spot the enemy from afar preparing to attack and a sense of dread overwhelms me. It last all night.The dream interpreters, not particularly surprisingly, suggest this reflects some form of conflict one are facing in one's life.Today, in the cinema I witnessed that dream come to life, imagined by Sam Mendes in a Hades like no other.It's terrifying.Totally and utterly terrifying.It's a true story based on the experience of Mendes' grandfather, Alfred, who shared a fragment of what happened with his grandson.Mendes' career is largely theatre-based, and many film critics believe theatre makers do not make good film makers. Yes, they might be strong on dialogue and characterisation but they tend to be weaker on cinematography.One way to resolve this is to create your movies with Roger Deakins, surely the greatest cinematographer in history - given not only his ridiculously great eye but also the technology he has to further enhance his art.There can be NO doubt that this is as much Deakins' movie as it is Mendes'. He was Oscar nominated 12 times before he finally landed one for Bladerunner 2049 (along the way his greatness has blessed No Country for Old Men, Skyfall, The Shawshank Redemption, Faro and The Assasination of Jesse James...). This will be his second. There can be no doubt about that.The combination of stunning grading, extremely long takes and unworkeoutable steadycam technique defies logic, description and understanding. It is mesmerising.Remember the first 20 minutes of Speilberg's Saving Private Ryan, arguably the greatest War movie of all time? Would you agree with me that the remaining 90 minutes is patchy at best? Well, 1917 begins more slowly, but no less electrifyingly, as we settle into Deakins' art. The difference though is that the remaining 90 minutes of 1917 grab you by the throat and do not let off.It's completely overwhelming.Technical movies of this competence don't always have great acting performances. And this won't win George Mackay an Oscar, probably not even a nomination, but he does not let the side down, neither does his supporting actor Dean-Charles Chapman, but although this is SUCH a human story it's the sheer scale and bravado of the overall thing that is what makes it such a compelling piece of filmmaking.Some will lament the fact that this is so, but I believe Mendes has found the balance.One other thing Thomas Newman's soundtrack is so gripping, so menacing that jeopardy is maintained for it's entirety, it's a significant achievement.He has created a nightmare vision that out-horrors even the likes of The Exorcist, because this is no fantasy, this is reality, and it feels like it.Truly a seminal cinema experience. This will only be half the movie on your TV set so get up and get down to your local big screen, before it's too late.Peerless.The movie of the year (although I've yet to see Parasite) in an already epic year.
Firstly, you *must* watch this on an IMAX. DON'T ever see this on a small screen.This film had me and my brother moved to tears multiple times. The Night Window scene moved me to weep and I don't know why. (Roger Deakins and Thomas Newman also deserve a great deal of the credit).The format of the film is nothing like I've seen before (and I've seen Russian Ark) but the acting is brilliant to carry what starts as a weird method to follow the characters throughout their story.
This movie by far is one of the best movies I have seen so far . And yes the title is right , I was so into the movie that I didn't want to miss any second of it
Loved the way this film was shot. It is fantastic that the main characters are in shot for the complete film.Loved it.
This movie was phenomenal! every single thing about this was amazing, from start to finish! Many people are gonna say that it wasn't that good cause of the simple plot! But the outstanding cinematography and the music is what makes this movie so special! Best two hours of my life!!
1917 is an expertly crafted war movie that takes you right into the trenches of World War 1. The film follows two young British soldiers as they journey across No Man's Land and into enemy territory to call off an attack that will cost the lives of 1,600 men. The story is based on the account of the director's grandfather, who served in the war, and bears a stiking resemblance to the plot of Saving Private Ryan. The film delivers a deeply moving experience as you see the true human cost of war and scale of destruction left behind in what was supposed to be "The War to End all Wars". What really sets 1917 apart is the excellent Cinematography from Oscar winning DP Roger Deakins. The film is shot and edited to appear as one long take, with the exception of one intentional cut that fits the plot of the film. Although it isn't the first film to achieve this, it might be a first for a war film, which is truly impressive when considering the amount of practical effects and extras used in many scenes. This style of filmmaking really works with the story as the characters refuse to take a rest and push on with their mission, so does the camera refuse to take a break. If you are interested in history or are fascinated by the art of filmmaking, watch this movie!
It seems stupid to state but there was a war before the Second World War. How much do we know about it? When was the last successful film that was made about the subject? I struggle to name any. Sam Mendes looks to change that in his First World War thriller 1917.Unflinching, that is the word I would use to best describe 1917, it is a movie that doesn't care if you want to see what is on screen or not. You are going to watch all the same. It is horrible, painful and most of all beautiful.The entire point of any war film is to relate to an audience the deeper impact of what we see on screen. In this way their ultimate tool is tension. If you can keep the tension high in a wartime drama you are onto a winner. I could widen that viewpoint and say that is the goal of most films is to successfully deliver tension. This is something Sam Mendes has a speciality in. He knows what buttons to press and when to do so.It is quite an achievement to direct two of the most successful James Bond films ever and afterword make a film that is seen as ambitious and your masterpiece. This is where we find 1917, in a gap that we weren't even aware of in our minds, before the new instalment of the mega-blockbuster James Bond and in the lull of Christmas is this powerhouse of a compelling drama based around two soldiers with a singular mission in mind.When the film opens we are given around 5 minutes to settle ourselves into both the setting and the shooting style before we (not unlike our characters) are thrown headfirst into the first world war and all the horrors that it entails, this is an uncompromising vision of the real-life events which happened in a war that has forever been overshadowed by its sequel.Every single moment of 1917, every second and element is all used to elevate the pressure. From the music to the directing and cast, all of it has one goal in mind. To make us never relax. In the entire 2 hours run time, we are given only 2 periods of rest, matching up with our protagonists. Both of which end up giving us deeper anxiety, we want the characters to complete their task, and we want it now.I could pull out any number of sequences of 1917 as highlights but I will opt for just one, which is seen in part in the trailer when one of the 2 leads is seen running towards the camera and other soldiers are running across, that one sequence, when put in context, brought me to near tears alone. That is the power of this movie.I would be mistaken not to bring up how the conscious choice of camerawork gives 1917 it's shape and style, which when paired with the subtle but haunting score by Thomas Newman gives us the overall tone of the film. Blend those two titans with actors of unknown talent and cameos by A list brit talents put it in a grinder with girt, blood and regret, serve it up in an unclean cup and that is what 1917 feels like to watch. I say watch, I mean to endure.1917 is an unstoppable tour de force of the harrowing and traumatic nature of war. This is a film that will be on my top 10 of the year come to the end and more importantly should be on yours too.10 camera cuts out of 10
Though 1917's story may not be new and its backdrop of war unoriginal, it outshines all of its contemporaries with blindingly phenomenal moviemaking. Not even the pitch-perfect cast can eclipse this monumental feat of direction and cinematography. 1917 manages to immerse the audience into its narrative, forcing viewers to genuinely identify with the characters across its entire runtime.While we have seen long-tracking (no cut) shots (be them true or edited) wonderfully accomplished in previous films (Children of Men, Birdman, Paths to Glory, etc.), the level of superior craft on display in 1917 will not soon be matched, let alone eclipsed. This film has earned its right to win all the awards for best cinematography and direction.The acting is perfect. There are no "breakout" performances by the superb cast, but that is intentional. The focus rests entirely on the immediacy of WW1 trench warfare, -literally- not allowing you to look away. See this film.
I enjoyed it,a tad slow in places mind. A film full of suspense and had you on the edge of your seat. The sets were superb and give you a feel of what it was like for lads in the trenches during the First World War,although I don't think we will ever know the true horrors of war unless you were in it. A great performance from the two leads,George Mackay was excellent as Lance Corporal Schofield.All in all a good entertaining film which I suppose that's all you want from a trip to the cinema.A steady 7/10 and one that has to be watched on the big screen and not some crap copy 
Sorry thought this film was going to be good.
The best part is the last 30 minutes
Wonderful movie, directed and filmed
.............
It needs unflagging patience to appreciate the realistic beauty of the film and feel the cruelty of the war. Some complain about its insipidity. But veterans say insipidity is also part of a real war. That's what it's like.
LIKES:Acting
The Frontier
Deep Messages And Emotion
Artistic
Decent Pace For Most Of The Movie
Realistic Fighting
CinematographyDISLIKES:Not For The Faint Of Heart
Missing Some Action Components
The Middle Of the Movie's Approach
A Little Dense
SUMMARY:When it comes to a focus on British history and acting, there is always class injected into the presentation of the movie. In this war movie, that same focus has been curtailed to present the familiar concept of war into a new light. For one thing, this movie is much more about the acting compared to other battle ballads. Chapman and MacKay are fantastic in bringing the young cadets lives to bay, acting as the mirror to Britain's involvement in the war. The turmoil, the dedication, the friendship, and even the courage to face potential death are portrayed beautifully to cover the wide range of emotions involved with serving in the first great war. While we have seen great performances bringing out the nightmare that is war though, 1917 manages to bring a new way of telling the story through the frontier itself. The harsh landscapes, destroyed villages, and lighting are all coordinated to provide the true menace of the war and that beast is often scarier than the fighting itself. Like a Quiet Place, it's the silent nature of the vast landscape that adds the true emotional tensions. And as it all progresses the movie continues to show that artistic approach of capturing all the deep messages, emotion, and angles that come with war. I can't say much to minimize spoilers, but let's just say the mission to deliver the messages changes face and approach various times to display one of the most dynamic approaches to war theater dramas. This even bleeds over into the few fights that show up, trading the flashy Michael Bay sequences for simpler battles that rely on strategy, timing, and fewer shots. It may not be the most jaw dropping battles to date, but it fits so well into the presentation that it adds to that deadliness this film is showing. Finally, the real star is the cinematography. The specials did not lie, the movie is shot beautifully, an almost seemingly continuous shot that immerses you into the experience. You will feel a part of the brigade to deliver the message, and as a result you'll get the full amount of terror, intensity, and other components that they directors wanted, and it's all done with stable camerawork.Yet, this opera also has a few things that did not quite work for me, that while not worth too many point deductions was worth mentioning. First it's not for the faint of heart, as the saying of war is hell is true, those with weak stomach may not handle a few things that are displayed. I can't say much, but just picture the worst part of war and get yourself prepared, a few of which were a little too drawn out for my tastes. Past that warning though, the action junkie in me wanted a little more bang for the buck. I get the realistic approach they were taking, but a little more combat and coordination would have helped spice some things up for me and get the pace moving. While artistic and realistic, I can't lie that the movie is rather dense, relying so much on visuals that it leads to a slower paced war tale. Again, this keeps in time with the artistic nature, but there were some slower parts that had me battling to remain conscious. And when the movie hits about the middle of the film, the dynamic they take sort of uproots what the trailers promised. It's not a bad twist at all and really captivates on the experience of war, but it's just not what I had intended to see.The VERDICT:The rumors about this movie are true, it's an amazing display of war visualization that was able to break free from the traditional war story movie. British acting alongside award winning cinematography are the key components for this film, setting the screen for that wild war frontier where emotions run wilder than the bullets from guns. True, I would have liked a little more war sequences and excitement, and I could have done with a little less dense dialogue, but overall it's a solid movie and worthy of the praise. Again, not for the faint of heart at times, but this reviewer encourages to catch this one in theaters when you can.My scores are:Drama/War: 9.0
Movie Overall: 8.5
This is a movie that should be seen by young and old. Brilliantly written and directed by Sam Mendes and the acting was superb.
There is nothing negative to say about this film at all - we loved it including the beautiful music and filming throughout.
One of the most thrilling cinematic experiences. Captivating score. Mendes delivers the most realistic WW1 movie ever shot that does nothing to compromise the true horror of War.
This film contains one of the most beautifully shot sequence I've ever seen in a movie.
Hard to say how this movie could have been improved upon. The two hour running time is spot on with the perfect balance between action and Human emotion.
In my opinion this movie more engaging than Saving Private Ryan. Go and watch this film now Epic!!
I'll get my 1 "negative" out of the way first, and it's not really a negative at all. The film is promoted as the cameras never leaving the 2 primary actors (or at least one of them). Counting the opening shot, the camera does indeed leave them -- 10 times. But even those are almost all the viewpoints of one or both of those characters.
A fictional story that nonetheless doesn't shy away from the horrors and humanity of war, it is worth the watch, and is sure to win lots of awards.
Will easily be the best cinematography film of 2020. Stunning visuals captivate your attention the whole way through.
1917 is a brilliant World War I Movie directed by Sam Mendes. The action in this movie is about as real as it can possibly feel and level of emotion you experience is on the same level.1917 perfectly illustrates everything that can go wrong on the battlefield, and how much you can lose in just one day.This movie had me on the edge of my seat from about 10 mins in all the way until the end.Due yourself a favor and either watch this movie in IMAX or D-BOX and nothing else! This is a truly mesmerizing experience.
Such a visually, stunning and beautiful masterpiece. Could not take my eyes of the screen. If you get the chance watch it In IMAX. Sam Mendes can add a few oscars to go along with his golden globe and knighthood! Take a bow Sam and go and book your tickets for the cinema ASAP!
Absolutely loved this film pulled at the heart strings
Very well made movie in just one frame fantastic too good, this is the second best war movie after saving private ryan, will give the credit to the director
This movie was absolutely incredible! I just saw it in theaters today and I don't think there was a single dry eye in the theater. This movie was packed with a pure roller coaster of emotion and was so very intense. Everything about the movie was wonderful. The story was great and simple, the acting was superb, and the directing was absolutely phenomenal. This movie will most definitely win best picture at the Academy Awards.
Wildly impressive. A simple story that plays like a theatre drama, the intimacy and subsequent pressure of one take keeps you holding your breathe on the edge of your seat the entire duration. MacKay and Chapman shine as they carry the emotional weight of the film like champs. Visually stunning, emotionally wrenching, and overall groundbreaking technologically. Will leave you reeling, without a doubt.
The movie shows in greta detail that every solider has the same story. Solider must follow orders and hope to surivive to get home. The only way home is death or victory.Doesn't matter if its Civil War or the War for Independence.or the Roman LegionsA solider burdened is always heart felt because you know that by following orders your family and love ones may never see you but you keep moving keep walking and keep heading to the finish.A great script with love and respect to the foot soldier.
"Poor fellows shot dead are lying in all directions. Trenches, bits of equipment, clothing (probably blood-stained), ammunition, tools, caps, etc., etc., everywhere. Everywhere the same hard, grim, pitiless sign of battle and war. I have had a belly full of it."
Captain James PattersonAn Oscar spoiler? 1917 won the top Golden Globe award, and no one can complain about that, regardless of how that quirky Foreign Press decides. At the least it is one of the most moving films of the last decade; at the best its cinematography bests newly- classics like The Irishman and Once Upon a Time . . . in Hollywood.WWI already has its iconic trench warfare epic in Stanley Kubrick's Paths of Glory. 1917 equals the visual horror and claustrophobia, the animal-like scramble to survive, and it adds another personal dimension as writer-director and writer Krysty Wilson-Cairns focus on two soldiers (Dean-Charles Chapman as Lance Corporal Blake and George Mackey as Lance Corporal Schofield) commissioned to travel with a general's letter to save 1600 men doomed to be massacred by retreating Germans, who have faked retreat.The remarkably continuous shot has iconic Roger Deakins' camera snake through the trenches and into the danger of land travel and gives the sense of our accompanying, and none of the sights is pretty. The body-strewn landscape is somewhat sanitized here, but that could be because of the fabulous messenger conceit.
Although dialogue is sparse, the visceral energy of the mise en scene is incomparable. The tension is more than fear of death. It is fear that the young soldiers will not get to their comrades in time to stop them from advancing to an ambush.Although a couple of incidents along the away feel contrived to bring the drama to a more traditional level, the overall brilliance is cinema verit-a gut level dread that mirrors the horror felt by the two couriers. Their devotion to each other echoes the dedication of the armies to end the war to end all wars.You may cry at the reality of real war or at the decision to make this best movie of the year, but you will not be sorry to see one of the best film experiences of 2019.
Saw many war pictures and each have a different take, and story with each director filming a different way. This War War 1take "1917" from director Sam Mendes is a single camera gazed straight shot that has a focus of travel and journey that being the destination of two British soldiers. The background shows war is hell as along the path you see dead rats and human remains like skeletons caked in the mud all sacrificed from blood and glory. Both soldiers have been dispatched to deliver an urgent message to some other 1600 soldiers that being a trap by the Germans. So maybe the British might rethink about a war attack otherwise.Thru the journey you see the village of war is a no man's land from booby traps to riverbanks alone. Still the two have hope even though fear and doubt is forever present. The film is moving it really holds as the images stick in your mind along with this journey as the images and travels speak a message of emotions as it's clear this work has it's images to speak louder than words.
This movie is truly breathtaking. From the first few moments of the movie we can see that Roger Deakins is at the helm of the camera. His work in this movie and the work of the production designers are what makes this movie sensational. You really do believe you are there with these men as they go to war. Immersive, powerful and heartwarming are just a few words that come to mind when watching this movie. If you liked 'Dunkirk' by Chris Nolan, then you will definitely not want to miss this movie.
Gripping, visceral, engrossing, and absolutely captivating are all words that I would use to describe this masterfully created work of art. This is a movie that has both atmosphere and action, a combination that pulls you in and makes you forget about who, where, and what you are for the entire duration. War films have been done to death but 1917 brings something new to the table with its spectacle of one-shot cinematics. I counted a total of three times where they used intelligent transitions to make the story flow.Well worth your time, if not to experience the war but rather to experience the art of the directors vision. 9/10
This movie is easily movie of the year. This movie has everything. Every detail was perfected. Such an amazing story, and it was told phenomenally. It was fairly graphic, but that was the best part of the movie. Nothing was sugar coated. Everything made you feel like it was super authentic.
I want to watch this movie again, but as of now, this is one of the best war movies I've seen in a long time.The movie is emotionally overwhelming, riveting, visceral, haunting yet beautiful and its gripping to the end. Director Sam Mendes masterfully evokes the harrowing horrors of WW1 while unearthed the humanity from within.At times the shots were mesmerizing and a feast to the eyes, Deakins' technical prowess successfully gives this movie a very tangible experience, like peering a window into the past. The movie speaks volume when there is no dialogue, and thats where the movie truly distinguishes itself from other war movies, which often focuses on the characters.Go out and watch it in the best theater possible, this movie is outstanding!
This movie has everything. Its profound, enlightening, has well developed characters, it immerses the audience and makes you feel like you're in the trenches with all the characters and is incredibly moving and intense. The messages conveyed are nuanced yet subtle but also profound. This movie is a great road and psychological war thriller film. It's a modern classic and one of the best war films that I've ever seen as well as one of the best movies of the year. This masterpiece is filmmaking at it's finest.
Depressing and slow...it's understandable that war is an ugly reality, however, the story here has very little depth.I've seen better.....
One of the reasons I watched the movie was because of the Golden Globe win and the interesting camera work, but I witnesed something really special.The outstanding cinematography brings to life the WW1 battlefield and it feels so real and "magical" at the same. The amount of months that were invested in this piece is impressive. The main characters did a great job, the only thing I noticed was that there wasn't much to their background, it was just kind of a mediocre character built honestly. Roger Deakins deserves an Oscar nomination for the camera work and so does Thomas Newman, for the soundtrack. The music is very memorable and melodic. There are scenes conducted by Sam Mendes that make all the film departments work together and those are one of the most satisfying scenes I have seen in a decade.It's a great film to end the year with. If you are intersted in history and love a good piece of drama, then I highly recommend it. The tension is real!
I don't know maybe I have evolved or rather became disillusioned with my patriotic aspirations. I blame the internet, as it showed me that the enemy is within.The movie is well shot and the music is haunting, the first half of the film is expository with few words in between, truly mesmerising. I would also add that I can't imagine anyone in the role of Schofield other than George MacKay.But the plot, the script in general, and the ending felt like I was watching a cheap conservative hallmark channel drama on an extremely generous budget.The cameos meant nothing to me, oh look there's Colin Firth - we will never see him again, oh look there's Benedict Cumberbatch and his scar as you were, then that other guy in the end. Good acting overall but too scripted!Should you watch it? If anything it is only worth your while on a big screen, actually the movie has a surprising amount of jump scares ha! There's one moment in the film where I guarantee you will make you jump. So yea go watch but don't expect The Thin Red Line.
The first third of the movie was brilliant, had it stayed on that level the whole movie it would be perfect, It was tense, beautifully shot, and had just the right amount of emotion. However, somewhere in the second third, the movie succumbs to some traditional hollywood problems - our hero becomes almost invincible, some scenes overly sentimental, and there are some obvious plot holes. Mendes should've toned down this part and it would've been perfect. The last part is still a bit overly sentimental, but overall the movie ends on a high note. As i said it really is a great movie, but it has it's problems that took away a bit from the overall experience. The cinematography is gorgeous though, at some parts it almost makes the war seem a bit too beautiful.
What a great film. The cutting is so seem-less and the action is
so damn documentary style. Bravo Mendes!
I won't say what's good in this movie because there are countless things. I will just say what I didn't like. I didn't like the filler/bonding moments and the part with the plane and the way the soldier is killed. It was too fake and happened just so as to dramatise the end of the movie. The scenario was too weak and they should have worked it better so that the soldier would die more organically.
1917 the most unique film in the past decade.Sam Mendes and the 1917 team did an excellent job at displaying the bravery and sacrifice of war - a horror that should be the revival of the war movie genre.It constantly entertains an extraordinary plot with beautifully shot scenes and incredible acting. It's very easy to forget this is all done in one. continuous. take. no. breaks. (very well edited, by the way) It's a time-sensitive scenario where we see the characters every decision.The movie is shot in an order oddly reminiscent of how a video game would be played. You and the characters both have the exact point of view and would be forced to make those decisions in this 'almost game-like World War 1 mission'. I'm amazed by how they transitioned between scenes so flawlessly.All in all, a revolutionary way to share a story on the big screen.
The start of "The Storytelling Revolution".
Story - 8 out of 10
A bit far fetched at times and the timeline/distances themselves never really make sense. However, it is totally engrossing and you are happy to believe every moment of it.Acting/Characters - 8 out of 10
A little weak to start off with but there are so many powerful and emotional moments throughout that you have yourself wondering how can this be the same film.Cinematography/Costume - 8 out of 10
Beautiful cinematography without being spectacular, the attention to detail on the uniforms and set designs are very impressive. The running scene at the end is one of my most favourite cinematic moments of all time.Soundtrack - 7 out of 10
Explosive and haunting all at the same time. Dialogue is clear and easy to understand.Overall - 8 out of 10
1917 is a war movie that doesn't rely on extreme levels of gore and brutality to have you gasping for air by the end of it. The constant suspense and overall tone of the film will have far more of an effect on you. Amazing movie!
1917 proves that great film's can be made. It shows that putting a little more time and effort can turn something that good into something that great. This film is by far my favorite film of 2019. This film is shot to appear as one long take. This approach is not only fasanating but adds so much to the story. You immediately feel the tention due to a strict time restraint due to the plot. As these characters get further to their goal, you can't help but realize the time is ticking. Following their ENTIRE journey because of the one shot makes this film feel like it's you going on this mission with these other soldiers. 1917 is a true masterpiece and should be looked upon as inspiration for those who make film.
I've never left a review on imdb for a movie. I generally read most reviews for movies i'm about to watch or shows im currently watching. This movie changed that. I feel as though other people need to know just how unique and excellent this film is.I will admit off the bat that war films are most likely my favorite genre, and that I was very excited for this film before I saw it. It fulfilled my hype. I'm writing this for those that had no knowledge of the film, and dont care for war movies. See it and decide.One cut is what makes this film so crazy unique and anti-generic war movie (gunfights, men dying gloriously x100, this film has none of that) Corporal schofield does not leave the screen the whole movie. You come along for this journey of his. You want him to succeed and stay safe, but there are so many times you are holding your breath for him. When he stops to rest on scene it's almost as if the viewer is looking in the background to be sure he's safe. One scene for example is when the two soldiers are watching the dogfight in the sky just for a Fokker biplane to fly right into the scene, putting an absolute death scare into the viewers. There are so many thriller elements in the film its incredible when you dont expect there to be any.My biggest gripe was how schofield finds the battalion he's ordered to save. (no spoilers) it felt rushed and very random, just kind of stumbles on them, but doesnt change really anything about the movie as there is still much more footage of him attempting to reach his goal once he's at it.The sets are probably the selling point of the film. Won't find a more immersive world war 1 film if you tried. From the trenches to no-man's land to the shelled out cities it all makes you believe it was filmed with an imax camera in the year 1917.Overall, one can have zero knowledge on the first world war, can hate the status quo hollywood war film and still love this movie. The movie could have been based on two german soldiers, two french soldiers, it wouldn't have mattered. It was about beating the odds and keeping you on the edge of your seat as you waited to see if the main character could make it a few more steps closer to their goal unharmed. There was truly so much suspense and action that I found myself hoping the movie wouldnt end. Cannot wait to see again...
What an incredible film. The protagonists are rarely out if shot, accentuating their roles in the film. The cinematography is jaw dropping and aids your transportation into life in the trenches in WWI. The mission they're given is nigh impossible and their determination and bravery is to be applauded.
What I enjoyed most about this film is that the focus is not on the special effects of the shrill demented choirs of gunfire and shelling that must have been horrific to experience, but on the emotions felt by those featured.
If Saving Private Ryan is the WWII to see, then 1917 is its WWI counterpart.
In terms of technical filmmaking, "1917" is easily one of the most impressive War films that I have seen, and not only for the one track shot. The settings are gorgeously depicted from beginning to end, with the editing and music perfectly matched. I found the story to be deeply moving (I was nearly in tears at one point near the end of the movie), but like any historical drama , there will be plenty to critique, and like any war film, there will be divided opinions.But overall, I think "1917" deserves all the awards that it has already received, and I'm certain that this movie will get at least one Oscar, if not several, in a couple of weeks.9/10
I liked the soundtrack and great authentic scenery, and good acting, but long and drawn out, and less fighting than expected for a war film... Worth seeing...
This was a masterfully directed and shot film. Not really much of a backstory to anything, including the characters, which brings it down a notch a little bit for me to a seven. That was probably the intention, in fact I'm assuming it definitely was, but it did take away some appeal for me. However, the cinematography and direction is absolutely amazing. No question that Sam Mendes should have received the best director Golden Globe. Great film, best watched in the theater in my opinion, definitely worth your money.
After Schofield went through hell and lost a friend, that had to be crushing to hear. At least the other Blake appreciated the lengths Schofield went through to get to him.Also, the scene where Schofield woke up during the night and the lights/flares were going off has to be one of Roger Deakins' coolest use of light. He deserves another Oscar just for that sequence alone. That entire sequence in the burning town was one of the greatest experiences I've ever had watching a film. The colour palette being drenched in nothing, but black and orange, the use of shading that really made any hint of light pop out, the music, the camera tracking Schofield running through the town... All of it was gorgeous and harrowing eye candy, but that slow creep through the window is a moment that will stick in my mind forever.
This is going to be an in depth heavy spoiler review of Sam Mendes' 1917:Where do I start, I saw this on opening day in IMAX (I am from the UK, I know it releases on the 24th in the US in IMAX screens) with my Dad. This is one of those movies that you have to see on the biggest screen possible and the best sound system you can find, it really enhances the overall experience.Let's dive into the actual contents of the movie by talking about the main draw to the movie, the cinematography and one shot feel to it. This does no way feel like a gimmick just to draw crowds in, but an integral part to the story that really made the movie as good as it was, it would not have worked without the extraordinary camerawork from Roger Deakins (guaranteed Oscar) and his team. Some of the shots in this movie are some of the most creative and beautiful I have ever seen in cinema, a couple of examples include the scene with the flares going up at night in the town and the scene where Schofield is running through the fields perpendicular to wave 1 of the attack in order to deliver the message to the commander. Also, the cuts were not obvious and after about 5 minutes I forgot that there were even cuts in the film due to the polished editing and therefore stopped looking for them.This movie also contains what I believe to be one of the most under-appreciated actors this awards season, that man being James Mackay, right from the beginning he sells the performance as an irrelevant soldier in WW1 who is forced to go on a mission with his friend Blake. You could feel every ounce of fear, regret, and eventually, pain and determination within his character. dean-Charles Chapman, on the other hand, gives a solid performance but sadly doesn't really get enough time during the movie to truly shine and have a standout until his demise, where he is phenomenal. The collection of well known actors in this movie have about 6 minutes of screen time in total so I cannot really comment on them, however Cumberbatch delivered the only line of the movie that made everyone in my screening erupt in laughter.One last thing I would like to comment on before I go onto my only negative points of the movie is the score. The score fits perfectly with every moment that it is accompanied with and also fits the mood of the characters very well. One very clear example I can think of is when Schofield is running through the ruins of the town and the Germans are chasing after him, the music slowly builds up to the climax of this scene which is when he jumps into the river below. I firmly believe that Thomas Newman has a very high chance of grabbing that Oscar that he deserves, the only person that could come close to him is Hildur who composed Joker's score.I have two very minor complaints with the movie that I would like to highlight before I give my overall opinion and score. The first of these being that the scene where the plane crashes right where Schofield and Blake are located is a bit farfetched, I understand tat this segment was integral to the plot for obvious reasons but I just feel as if it comes across as a bit of bad luck rather than a genuine risk. My second nick pick is that the scene with the mother and the rescued baby felt shoehorned in just to add another sad moment to the plot, especially because it was never revisited.My overall verdict is that it is a must see technological marvel that is almost perfect and I would not be surprised to see this sweep awards at the Oscars, including best picture. My final rating is 9.5/10, I expect this to change slightly change after I have let the movie sunk in and after a rewatch, but for now it is easily my number 1 movie of 2019.P.S, no one in my cinema made a sound apart from the sound of holding back tears. Everyone's jaws looked like they could touch the floor and everyone erupted into applause at the end, easily my best experience at a screening of a movie ever
Wonderful in so many ways. Excellent story, great acting, sets are amazing. Quite disturbing at times, the tension rarely drops but the effect of it being filmed as a single shot is quite extraordinary. Highly recommended.
Director Sam Mendes' "1917" is a WW I film that catches your attention, invites you into its domain, and captures you in its glory from the very beginning. There have been hundreds of war films made over the years but few have achieved such technical brilliance as this visual miracle of a movie, making it stand as the best war film since 1998's "Saving Private Ryan."Shot in one continuous take by legendary cinematographer Roger Deakins, "1917" continuously surprises us by how Deakins and Mendes were able to pull off various sequences. Shooting a film in one long-take is in itself a tremendous visual achievement but what makes this film so special is how it manages to incorporate all of the commotion going on in a chaotic war zone in just one take.Set in the title year during the first World War in the battlefields of Northern France, British soldiers Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman, who played King Tommen in "Game of Thrones") and Corporal Schofield (George MacKay) are sent on a mission deep into enemy territory to send a message to a fellow battalion to call off an attack that would unintentionally lead to the deaths of 1600 men due to German forces maneuvering a deadly trap. Both soldiers face the grueling hardships of war and fight for survival to deliver the message, Blake determined to beat time to save his older brother who happens to be in the group.Sam Mendes has crafted the most majestic and elaborate film of his career. Few filmmakers have generated such consistent tension that keeps the audience on edge due to the intensity manifested. Mendes is able to grip us solely through following our main characters along their journey, the two always in potential danger, the enemy's gunshots or bombs always in anticipation of going off. We never know when an attack will escalate or when the two men will be shot at, creating a sheer pressure for the characters that hits the audience with a punch solely on the build-up and not necessarily the actual combat.Many war films often end up being action movies, having the protagonist be unbeatable heroes who never really face any danger. Mendes depicts a realistic version of warfare, the simple inconveniences that may seem unnecessary such as a truck getting stuck in the mud, bumping into fellow soldiers while running across a battlefield, or cutting your hand on barbed wire all making the film more believable and allowing us to truly get a feel for what the characters are experiencing and how uncomfortable war can be."1917" isn't the type of war film that will fill you with powerful emotions and doesn't necessarily excel at character development. We don't learn much about either main character, but Mendes intentionally orchestrates the film in such a manner. What the "American Beauty" and "Road to Perdition" director tries to pursue is to express how each soldier was simply a number and is interested in exploring how two seemingly unimportant soldiers are given great importance. While a unique approach, the film would be even more monumental if we got to know more about the two men we follow in order to identify with them, mostly in part due to the excellent performances by the two young actors we closely follow.There's no denying that "1917" is masterful mostly in part due to its stunning filmmaking. What the film lacks in narrative and characterization, it more than makes up for simply by how mesmerizing it looks on screen. The cinematography is not only extremely impressive, it will change the way movies are made. There have been films like "Birdman" from 2014, but no film has been shot entirely in one take with so much commotion occurring. Somehow, Deakins and Mendes make a film that flows so gracefully and captures all of the details of war. Every second of the film you feel the creative strategies of a director and cinematographer, making it a truly unique cinematic experience and stunning technical achievement.Focusing the film around beating time to deliver the message allows the audience to feel a constant sense of conflict. While intense and grueling, Mendes manages to explore humanity often forgotten during the war, two sequences, in particular, standing out as beautiful and moving amid explosive carnage and kinetic intensity.With a Golden Globe win for Best Director and Best Drama Film, "1917" is a serious contender at the upcoming Academy Awards. Surely one of 2019's best films, this is a film capable of inciting elevated levels of wonder and awe due to its master-class filmmaking and showcase of true persistence.
Spoiler free review of 1917,To be honest it is one of the best war films I have watched. The film was perfectly balanced with shocking scenes that were somehow made to feel like everyday experiences in the way the characters must view them before you realise that what your watching is truly horrifying, then moving into scenes that could draw out a sense of realisation as you remember this was something that people actually went through.The whole range of techniques lent itself to the story telling such as the music, sound effects and use of silence to completely deprive you of comfort or to shift your emotion to exactly the right place. The way to the camera worked made you truly feel like you are there with the characters feeling everything they felt. The acting was phenomenal and made every scene feel tense, happy or lonely depending on how the story progressed.Truly an amazing film that leaves out none of the horrors of war, I would definitely recommend you watch it.
The whole movie is made to look as one continuous shot, but still captures jaw dropping shots which are backed by an incredible score. The score will bring you on a rollercoaster of emotions that capture the intensity and triumph of the beautiful shots that I will never forget. The only reason I don't give this a 10/10 is because the main characters' logic is sometimes questionable. When the characters face conflict I found myself questioning their reasoning, and some of it just didn't make sense.
Make no mistake, this is a must-see. It perfectly captures the horror of no-mans land, along with the awe of the strangely beautiful war torn landscape of the western front.
SEE THIS MOVIE ASAP.
This film amazing the way it is all done in one take and never cuts is a technical showcase of how a film can be done.
As for the film it's self it is a intense war film that in my option is better than black hawk down and the acting is impressive to say the least.
Would highly recommend!
Two young British soldiers during the First World War are given an impossible mission: deliver a message deep in enemy territory that will stop 1,600 men, and one of the soldiers' brothers, from walking straight into a deadly trap.There is a lot of beauty in 1917. The war is catastrophic and the casualties are sickening, but it's all presented in this gorgeous light through the intricate eyes of Roger Deakins (cinematography).Bravo Roger Deakins! Thomas Newman's score is gorgeously depressing with this layer of victory sprinkled in for good measure. This is quite possibly the most technically sound film of 2019.1917 is a visual spectacle that is sure to be brought up again and again in the years to come. 9/10
The sequence of events flows right-off the bat, centralised around the main charter(s), drawing you into their world, their situation, and their mission at-hand, whilst facing the most server of perils on the frontline. This unforgiving task is recorded from start to finish with long sweeping tracking shoots, with cuts only ever being made at key sweeping intervals, which are fantastically executed.The story whilst simple, is an eye opening experience, and truly sad at it's core, however it's driven by valor throughout, brilliant cameos, amazing cinematography, and a heroic story at it's core.A must see on the big screen, and certainly a contender at the awards.
The story follows Corporals Blake and Schofield as they're given a mission to cross into enemy territory to deliver a message to a Colonel about to step into a German trap. The film follows along roughly in real time as the two men traverse trenches, no man's land, and abandoned towns, taking every opportunity to show us the horrors of war along the way. They meet a variety of side characters who help them move from one setpiece to the next, all while the camera follows keenly, never cutting away from what they see or how they react. As far as story goes, there honestly isn't all that much to it. It's a straight-forward story of a journey from point A to point B. No frills, no mind-bending twists, no flashbacks. The story is secondary to the experience the film wants to immerse you in.The most obvious way the film immerses you in the theatre of war is with its relentlessly promoted use of long shots and hidden cuts. If I was a pernickety critic, I'd point out it's actually two composite long-shots rather than just a single one thanks to a cut to black roughly in the middle, which makes the gimmick feel almost superfluous. If you're going to make a film with the goal of it being a single long-shot, don't cut it to black in the middle. Of course the reason they do this is so they don't have to tackle with the problem of dusk. Dusk is already a difficult time of day to film in, but to somehow capture the transition from day to night in a composite long-shot would be almost impossible. It also helps narratively by placing the climax of the movie in the early morning without the film being twelve hours long.So I can see why they made that decision, but ultimately I feel like if it was really that necessary, the film should have eschewed the gimmick and been filmed and edited more traditionally, using the concept of long-shots more sparingly to make certain scenes stand out above others. When you make the whole movie a long-shot, you're making the visceral trek across no man's land just as significant as an uneventful trek through the woods. The walk through the woods didn't particularly gain anything from being a long-shot, nor did any sequence of events at the farmhouse or in the truck, and bringing them up to the level of the no man's land scene, the numerous trench scenes, and the coust sequence kind of cheapened the experience for me.All that said, on a purely technical basis, the use of long-shot was phenomenal. This was easily some of the best composite editing I've ever seen. In fact knowing it was going to be a long-shot kind of ruined the experience for me because I spent the whole time trying to spot the cuts. There are some obvious ones like complete blackout when they move from an exterior to an interior, and of course clever use of obstacles in the foreground like walls and trees, but there are many more that I couldn't spot. For instance there's one during the plane crash and I couldn't spot it even though I've seen a video pointing it out. God knows how many more of those kind of cuts I missed. There's a couple more as well that are a bit obvious when Schofield jumps down into something (once into a crater and second into a river). You can tell there's a cut because his jump is CGI'd in in order to match the two shots together. Regardless the camera moves so smoothly from one moment to another that most the time it's impossible to tell. Watch out for the river scene. There must have been cuts there, complicated by the turbulent waters, but I couldn't see any. The illusion of moving from one scene to another is maybe only spoiled by so many landmarks being seemingly so close together. Thanks to all the difficulties they encounter along the way to slow them down, the actual walk unimpeded would've taken less than two hours.The use of lighting is also remarkable, especially in the coust sequence with the blazing fire creating Deakins' favoured single-source of light, but then complicating matters with a number of flares that go up and cast ever-shifting shadows on the walls of the ruins. They had to map this sequence out with a model of the entire town and a moving torch in order to track the shadows movements before filming, and that alone is worth kudos. Other than that though, 1917 is a fairly subtle film for Deakins. It's never particularly pretty, and the long-shot gimmick prevents the opportunity for fixed camera compositions, but that's not what this movie is about. Deakins manages to craft a visual identity fitting for this movie that services every need while showing off in more subtler ways.Acting was pretty good across the board. George MacKay manages to hold the emotional weight of the film on his shoulders from beginning to end (or tree-slump to tree-slump) as Corporal Schofield, playing a young man already disillusioned with war. He's already earned a medal, and given it away, longing only to get back to his family. He comes across as cold and distant for much of the film, because he's a soldier with an important mission that must be done, no matter how unhappy he feels about it. Dean-Charles Chapman is also really good as Corporal Blake, offering the perfect counter to Schofield's pessimism. He's driven, enthusiastic, kind-hearted, and wouldn't mind a little bit of glory on the side. While he doesn't ignore the horrors of war, he certainly perceives them differently to Schofield, assuring him that while the cherry blossom trees may have been cut down, they'll only grow back in larger numbers.The various cameos of side-characters are all great as well. Colin Firth is perfectly cast as the General, no nonsense and straight to the point. Mark Strong's Captain is a warmer fellow, encountering the boys at their lowest and giving them a leg up and a word of warning. Andrew Scott almost steals the show as a Lieutenant on the frontlines with a blas and matter-of-fact attitude towards what's going on around him. Benedict Cumberbatch is a slice of antagonism in the Colonel, but manages to escape any clich in his small screen time, delivering one of the most brutal lines in the whole film. And finally Richard Madden as the older Blake brother gives an emotional turn, although I did find it somewhat hilarious that this film described Robb Stark as an older lookalike of Tommen Baratheon.1917 almost lives up to everything it promised (it's two long-shots, not one). War is not pretty. It's horrible and intense, and a simple trek through five miles of fields is fraught with danger around every corner, from the places you'd least expect. The barren wasteland is not as barren as it would appear, still hiding civilians and enemy stragglers (who hit like stormtroopers, I'll add). 1917 is an experience more than anything, and it's an experience I would gladly have again. I give it a solid 8/10.
1917 sweeps through harrowing, high-stakes mission to deliver a critical message to the front lines late in the first world war. Two young friends accept an order to make the death-defying run, hoping to save the lives of 1600 of their countrymen.The narrative itself contains few novel elements. We see stock characters like the crusty, jaded Colonel who "loves the fight", the wide-eyed youth eagerly following orders, the bell tower gunfight, the hero holding his friend as he dies - sputtering out his "tell my mom I love her" speech. The latter is a trope so common in earlier war films that it became a staple in parody. While familiar, it still works in this film because you are part of the action.The viewer follows the mission in one continuous shot as an invisible first-person through filthy, crowded and rat-infested trenches with only a vein of grey sky visible overhead. Signs are posted around the corners warning soldiers to keep their heads down - and momentarily you might even find yourself ducking. Bullets crack into the rocks next to you and you scan around, trying to figure out where they're coming from. You are immersed in the action!The attention to detail, the acting and the cinematography makes it all feel real. The experience is the selling point, so see it in the theater if you can!Naturally, none of this would work if the acting wasn't spot on. There is little dialogue throughout, so a lot has to be conveyed with faces and they succeed here. The leads adeptly convey veneers of stoic bravery over terror, panic, relief and sorrow.On the downside, the characters aren't explored too deeply but following along with relative strangers actually adds to the anxious "what am I doing here" vibe. The other gripe would just be that 1917 does check off a list of war movie cliches without breaking any ground, story-wise. I'm afraid that may make it less memorable, overall.By the final frame, you get to exhale. The experience is worthwhile.
1917 is flat out brilliant. It's one of the best war films of the 2010's and of all time. It's a great war film and feels slightly fresher due to how well executed it is.On a technical level, it is amazing. It's wonderfully directed and the choice to make it the film appear to be in one take is remarkable. There is a reason why Roger Deakins is one of the best cinematographers of all time of all time and this film once again proves it.On a story level, it may not be that complex or deep but it's non stop intense and that's just brilliant. Throughout it is just thrilling and engaging.Both the main leads are utterly fantastic especially George McKay. The supporting cast of people like Scott, Cumberbatch and Firth are good as well.Overall it's a great film and one hell of a experience. It's seriously terrific and although it might not be as good as Hacksaw Ridge it is still outstanding in everyway.
The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The director, the actor, and the cinematographer. Sam Mendes, George MacKay, and Roger Deakins.This trinity of artists has achieved something truly special with their World War War I masterpiece '1917.' There are good movies. There are great movies. And every so often-perhaps once a year at most, if we the audience may be so spoiled-there are movies that advance the art form beyond its present state, towards a loftier plane of existence. '1917' is indeed one of these movies.Upon seeing the film, words feel trivial in trying to characterize or describe in any meaningful way the experience that this movie provides. Give director Sam Mendes a pen and a camera and there isn't anything he can't do. Afford him the privilege of working with lead actor George MacKay and sublimity follows. Pair them both with legendary cinematographer Roger Deakins and transcendence awaits.The "single take" effect in which the film is presented is not new. Others have also done it to great acclaim, such as Alejandro G. Inarritu with 'Birdman' or Ilya Naishuller with 'Hardcore Henry.' But no other film has done it better than '1917' and quite frankly there are few, if any films in recent memory, that have been so thoroughly exceptional in every other facet of the filmmaking process.
First of all i want to say how much i loved that movie
this movie was funny scary thrilling and sad at the same time
every thing about this movie was quality
from the direction to the acting to the music
but one thing was really exceptional that was the cinematography it was breathtaking
watching this movie in IMAX screen is the only way to go
Is Sam Mendes capable of making a bad film? It seems not because he is yet to do so, and if '1917' is any indication he seems to be getting better as his career goes along. This was one of the most unique films I have ever watched. Filmed to look like one shot, despite the film being nearly two hours long. Just think about that for a moment. The amount of problems and difficulties it must've caused, and yet they fought through the adversity and got it done. The final product is one of the best films of 2019.The one shot isn't just a gimmick either. It adds immensely to the film. It makes everything feel so much more realistic and almost like you're actually a part of the movie. Without even realising it, cuts in films subliminally take you out of the movie. Here that problem doesn't exist. If it wasn't so beautifully made you could be watching a video someone took on an Iphone. There was a point where the characters were in the back of a truck on rough roads and I actually got an overwhelming feeling that I myself needed to put a seat belt on. That might sound silly, but that's an indication of how amazingly well executed this film was.Then to top it off the story is incredibly powerful. It makes no bones about the fact that the war was extremely grim for everyone involved. The film was sad, powerful and tense, often all at once. Finally some superb acting from the entire cast was the icing on the cake. I can't say enough good things about this film, and I would be very happy to see it win Best Picture at the Academy Awards in February.
Review - 1917WW1 flick not unlike the very disappointing Dunkirk. However, this is superb. A class above in all aspects. Well-done Sam Mendes.The cinematography in this film is something to behold, the way the camera follows our 2 English soldiers around immerses you into battlefields of the undisclosed locations.The plot revolves around 2 privates sent on a mission to stop an attack on German lines that will end in certain death for the battalion. Not unlike Gallipoli.The story never stalls and includes some close quarter combat, major battle scenes and raw emotion.What I loved about this is it's artistry. A technical masterpiece of film making and unlike Dunkirk it maintains the one story the whole way along.Don't be fearful of blood and gore, it's no Saving Private Ryan in that regard but it doesn't lack because of that. Quite the opposite.The only negative is that there could have been some extra character development or back story but I'm being over critical.This will surely win an Oscar for cinematography. Hands down some of the best camera work I've seen.Go see this at the cinema.9/10Highly recommended
"1917" hits you so hard it will leave you pinned to your seat. A masterful technical achievement and a breathtaking piece of cinema.
.
In this war drama, two young soldiers during the First World War are to deliver a message deep in enemy territory that will stop 1,600 men from walking straight into a deadly trap.
.
Director Sam Mendes ("American Beauty", Skyfall") has always been one of my favourite filmmakers just because he is so subtle, yet makes some of the best films out there. "1917" is great and should be seen on the big screen. From the opening scene you will find your eyes glued to the screen and your gut boiling with intensity. Cinematographer Roger Deakins ("The Shawshank Redemption", "Blade Runner 2049") holds the bar for his style of creating beauty and pulse pounding frames, especially here with his "one-shot" takes making the film seem like one continuous shot. I do not agree that "1917" is the best film of the year, but I do agree with the all the hype it's been receiving and you should all go out and see this film for yourselves.
Though the acting here is good, this is most definitely a director's movie. The real star here is the use of the almost constantly moving camera, which is either following from the side or often leading from the front of the characters.Since the main characters are sent, from the opening of the movie, on a DANGEROUS QUEST, this means that they are in almost constant movement across a dangerous terrain - the NE part of France during World War I - that gives the director the chance to keep us in almost constant suspense with that camera movement. In fact, I came to feel, as I watched it, that this movie was like the sort of video game in which the player must traverse a certain area, always on the lookout for things that might jump out at him or otherwise prevent his reaching his goal. But in the end, it is the standard format for almost any adventure, be it The Lord of the Rings or a medieval knight's tale: the hero must traverse dangerous lands in order to prevent a great catastrophe, with only his wits and - in this case - very limited weaponry to defend himself from those who try to stop him.The movie most reminded me of a video game during the moments when it seemed least realistic. Without giving anything away, the main character's encounter with a rapidly-rushing, rock-filled river while still wearing his boots and kit goes far behind the realm of human possibility.There were also a few scenes where the main characters do things that, while they build suspense, would not likely be done by individuals in their situation, like investigating an apparently deserted farmhouse that they do not need to worry about in order to continue their quest.So, in short, though the movie presents itself as functioning in the real world of NE France during World War I, you have to suspend your disbelief on occasion when it enters a sort of fantasyland.Still, the use of the camera is often downright remarkable, as I began by saying, and that carried me beyond such moments and held me to the end.
George mackay deserves some kind of prize, just for surviving this movie. it's 1917, george and a buddy have to deliver a message, before it's too late. lots of "you are there" action. sam mendes does a great directing job. even if you hate war movies, this one's for you.
The whole "one shot" aspect of this film is used in such a unique way, that from the very start of the film you feel connected to these characters. The suspense is thrilling, the emotion is deep, and the outcome is a beautiful take on a time in history not nearly reflected enough in film as much as it should be. The final frame blended with the beautiful score is a riveting and lasting takeaway.
